src/WAN/QueueCapacity.md, before:


### Queue Capacity

For huge clusters or high data mutation rates, you might need to increase the replication queue size. The default queue
size for replication queues is `10000`. This means, if you have heavy put/update/remove rates, you might exceed the queue size
so that the oldest, not yet replicated, updates might get lost.
 
Queue capacity can be set for each target cluster by modifying related `WanTargetClusterConfig`.

You can change this property using the declarative configuration as shown below.

```xml
...
 <wan-replication name="my-wan-cluster">
    <target-cluster group-name="london" group-password="london-pass">
        ...
        <queue-capacity>15000</queue-capacity>
        ...
    </target-cluster>
 </wan-replication>
...
```

And, the following is the equivalent programmatic configuration:

```java
...
 WanReplicationConfig wanConfig = config.getWanReplicationConfig("my-wan-cluster");
 WanTargetClusterConfig targetClusterConfig = new WanTargetClusterConfig();
 ...
 targetClusterConfig.setQueueCapacity(15000);
 wanConfig.addTargetClusterConfig(targetClusterConfig)
...
```

Commit message:

A note explaining separate queues are used for map or cache WAN replications.

src/WAN/QueueCapacity.md, after:


### Queue Capacity

For huge clusters or high data mutation rates, you might need to increase the replication queue size. The default queue
size for replication queues is `10000`. This means, if you have heavy put/update/remove rates, you might exceed the queue size
so that the oldest, not yet replicated, updates might get lost. Note that a separate queue is used for each WAN Replication configured for IMap and ICache.
 
Queue capacity can be set for each target cluster by modifying related `WanTargetClusterConfig`.

You can change this property using the declarative configuration as shown below.

```xml
...
 <wan-replication name="my-wan-cluster">
    <target-cluster group-name="london" group-password="london-pass">
        ...
        <queue-capacity>15000</queue-capacity>
        ...
    </target-cluster>
 </wan-replication>
...
```

And, the following is the equivalent programmatic configuration:

```java
...
 WanReplicationConfig wanConfig = config.getWanReplicationConfig("my-wan-cluster");
 WanTargetClusterConfig targetClusterConfig = new WanTargetClusterConfig();
 ...
 targetClusterConfig.setQueueCapacity(15000);
 wanConfig.addTargetClusterConfig(targetClusterConfig)
...
```
