src/replicatedmap/Considerations.md, before:



### Considerations for Replicated Map

If you have a large cluster or very high occurrence of updates, the replicated map may not scale linearly as expected since it has to replicate update operations to all members in the cluster.

Replicated map has an anti-entropy system, which will converge values to a common one if some of the members are missing replication updates.

Replicated map does not guarantee eventual consistency because there are some edge cases which fails to provide consistency.

Replicated map uses internal partition system of Hazelcast in order to serialize updates happening on the same key at the same time. This happens by sending updates of the same key to the same Hazelcast member in the cluster.

Due to asynchronous nature of replication, a Hazelcast member could die before successfully replicating a "write" operation to other members, after sending the "write completed" response to it's caller during the write process. In this scenario, Hazelcast's internal partition system will promote one of the replicas of the partition as the primary one. The new primary partition will not have the latest "write" since the died member could not successfully replicate the update. This will leave the system in a state that the caller is the only one that has the update and the rest of the cluster have not. In this case even the anti-entropy system simply could not converge the value since the source of true information is lost for the update. This leads to a break in the eventual consistency because different values can be read from the system for the same key.

Other than the aforementioned scenario, it will behave like an eventually consistent system with read-your-writes consistency.

Commit message:

back pressure note on replicated map

src/replicatedmap/Considerations.md, after:



### Considerations for Replicated Map

If you have a large cluster or very high occurrence of updates, the replicated map may not scale linearly as expected since it has to replicate update operations to all members in the cluster.

It is advised that to configure [back pressure](#back-pressure) when the system has high occurrence of updates since replication of updates made in an asynchronous manner. 

Replicated map has an anti-entropy system, which will converge values to a common one if some of the members are missing replication updates.

Replicated map does not guarantee eventual consistency because there are some edge cases which fails to provide consistency.

Replicated map uses internal partition system of Hazelcast in order to serialize updates happening on the same key at the same time. This happens by sending updates of the same key to the same Hazelcast member in the cluster.

Due to asynchronous nature of replication, a Hazelcast member could die before successfully replicating a "write" operation to other members, after sending the "write completed" response to it's caller during the write process. In this scenario, Hazelcast's internal partition system will promote one of the replicas of the partition as the primary one. The new primary partition will not have the latest "write" since the died member could not successfully replicate the update. This will leave the system in a state that the caller is the only one that has the update and the rest of the cluster have not. In this case even the anti-entropy system simply could not converge the value since the source of true information is lost for the update. This leads to a break in the eventual consistency because different values can be read from the system for the same key.

Other than the aforementioned scenario, it will behave like an eventually consistent system with read-your-writes consistency.
