src/HazelcastJavaClient/JavaClientConfiguration.md, before:

## Java Client Configuration

Hazelcast Java Client can be configured declaratively (XML) or programmatically (API). 

For declarative configuration, the Hazelcast client looks at the following places for the client configuration file.

- **System property**: The client first checks if `hazelcast.client.config` system property is set to a file path, e.g. `-Dhazelcast.client.config=C:/myhazelcast.xml`.

- **Classpath**: If config file is not set as a system property, the client checks the classpath for `hazelcast-client.xml` file.

If the client does not find any configuration file, it starts with the default configuration (`hazelcast-client-default.xml`) located in the `hazelcast-client.jar` library. Before configuring the client, please try to work with the default configuration to see if it works for you. The default should be just fine for most users. If not, then consider custom configuration for your environment.

If you want to specify your own configuration file to create a `Config` object, the Hazelcast client supports the following.

- `Config cfg = new XmlClientConfigBuilder(xmlFileName).build();`

- `Config cfg = new XmlClientConfigBuilder(inputStream).build();`


For programmatic configuration of the Hazelcast Java Client, just instantiate a `ClientConfig` object and configure the desired aspects. An example is shown below.

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.setGroupConfig(new GroupConfig("dev","dev-pass”);
clientConfig.setLoadBalancer(yourLoadBalancer);
...
...
```


### Client Network Configuration

All network related configuration of Hazelcast Java Client is performed via the `network` element in the declarative configuration file, or in the class `ClientNetworkConfig` when using programmatic configuration. Let's first give the examples for these two approaches. Then we will look at its sub-elements and attributes.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client xsi:schemaLocation=
    "http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/client-config hazelcast-client-config-<version>.xsd"
                  xmlns="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/client-config"
                  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
...
<network>
  <cluster-members>
    <address>127.0.0.1</address>
    <address>127.0.0.2</address>
  </cluster-members>
  <smart-routing>true</smart-routing>
  <redo-operation>true</redo-operation>
  <socket-interceptor enabled="true">
    <class-name>com.hazelcast.XYZ</class-name>
    <properties>
      <property name="kerberos-host">kerb-host-name</property>
      <property name="kerberos-config-file">kerb.conf</property>
    </properties>
   </socket-interceptor>
  <aws enabled="true" connection-timeout-seconds=“11">
    <inside-aws>false</inside-aws>
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <iam-role>s3access</iam-role>
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
```

#### Address List
Address List is the initial list of cluster addresses to which the client will connect. The client uses this list to find an alive node. Although it may be enough to give only one address of a node in the cluster (since all nodes communicate with each other), it is recommended that you give the addresses for all the nodes.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client>
  ...
  <network>
    <cluster-members>
      <address>10.1.1.21</address>
      <address>10.1.1.22:5703</address>
    </cluster-members>
  ...
  </network>
...
</hazelcast-client>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().addAddress("10.1.1.21", "10.1.1.22:5703");
```

If the port part is omitted, then 5701, 5702, and 5703 will be tried in random order.

You can provide multiple addresses with ports provided or not, as seen above. The provided list is shuffled and tried in random order. Default value is *localhost*.

#### Smart Routing

Smart routing defines whether the client mode is smart or dummy. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <smart-routing>true</smart-routing>
...
</network>
...
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().setSmartRouting(true);
```
The default is *smart client* mode.

#### Redo Operation

It enables/disables redo-able operations as described in [Retry-able Operation Failure](#retry-able-operation-failure). The following are the example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...  
  <redo-operation>true</redo-operation>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().setRedoOperation(true);
```

Default is *disabled*.

#### Connection Timeout

Connection timeout is the timeout value in milliseconds for nodes to accept client connection requests. The following are the example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-timeout>5000</connection-timeout>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionTimeout(5000);
```

The default value is *5000* milliseconds.

#### Connection Attempt Limit

While the client is trying to connect initially to one of the members in the `ClientNetworkConfig.addressList`, all members might be not available. Instead of giving up, throwing an exception and stopping the client, the client will retry as many as `ClientNetworkConfig.
connectionAttemptLimit` times. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-attempt-limit>5</connection-attempt-limit>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionAttemptLimit(5);
```

Default value is *2*.

#### Connection Attempt Period

Connection timeout period is the duration in milliseconds between the connection attempts defined by `ClientNetworkConfig.connectionAttemptLimit`. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-attempt-period>5000</connection-attempt-period>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionAttemptPeriod(5000);
```

Default value is *3000*.

#### Client Socket Interceptor

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)

Following is a client configuration to set a socket intercepter. Any class implementing `com.hazelcast.nio.SocketInterceptor` is a socket Interceptor.


```java
public interface SocketInterceptor {
    void init(Properties properties);
    void onConnect(Socket connectedSocket) throws IOException;
}
```

`SocketInterceptor` has two steps. First, it will be initialized by the configured properties. Second, it will be informed just after the socket is connected using `onConnect`.


```java
SocketInterceptorConfig socketInterceptorConfig = clientConfig
               .getNetworkConfig().getSocketInterceptorConfig();

MyClientSocketInterceptor myClientSocketInterceptor = new MyClientSocketInterceptor();

socketInterceptorConfig.setEnabled(true);
socketInterceptorConfig.setImplementation(myClientSocketInterceptor);
```

If you want to configure the socket connector with a class name instead of an instance, see the example below.

```java
SocketInterceptorConfig socketInterceptorConfig = clientConfig
            .getNetworkConfig().getSocketInterceptorConfig();

MyClientSocketInterceptor myClientSocketInterceptor = new MyClientSocketInterceptor();

socketInterceptorConfig.setEnabled(true);

//These properties are provided to interceptor during init
socketInterceptorConfig.setProperty("kerberos-host","kerb-host-name");
socketInterceptorConfig.setProperty("kerberos-config-file","kerb.conf");

socketInterceptorConfig.setClassName(myClientSocketInterceptor);
```

<br></br>
***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please see the [Socket Interceptor section](#socket-interceptor) for more information.*
<br></br>

#### Client Socket Options

You can configure the network socket options using `SocketOptions`. It has the following methods.

- `socketOptions.setKeepAlive(x)`: Enables/disables the *SO_KEEPALIVE* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setTcpNoDelay(x)`: Enables/disables the *TCP_NODELAY* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setReuseAddress(x)`: Enables/disables the *SO_REUSEADDR* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setLingerSeconds(x)`: Enables/disables *SO_LINGER* with the specified linger time in seconds. The default value is `3`.

- `socketOptions.setBufferSize(x)`: Sets the *SO_SNDBUF* and *SO_RCVBUF* options to the specified value in KB for this Socket. The default value is `32`.


```java
SocketOptions socketOptions = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().getSocketOptions();
socketOptions.setBufferSize(32);
socketOptions.setKeepAlive(true);
socketOptions.setTcpNoDelay(true);
socketOptions.setReuseAddress(true);
socketOptions.setLingerSeconds(3);
```

#### Client SSL

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)


You can use SSL to secure the connection between the client and the nodes. If you want SSL enabled for the client-cluster connection, you should set `SSLConfig`. Once set, the connection (socket) is established out of an SSL factory defined either by a factory class name or factory implementation. Please see the `SSLConfig` class in the `com.hazelcast.config` package at the JavaDocs page of the <a href="http://www.hazelcast.org/documentation" target="_blank">Hazelcast Documentation</a> web site.

#### Client Configuration for AWS

The example declarative and programmatic configurations below show how to configure a Java client for connecting to a Hazelcast cluster in AWS.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
  <aws enabled="true">
    <inside-aws>false</inside-aws>
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <iam-role>s3access</iam-role>
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientAwsConfig clientAwsConfig = new ClientAwsConfig();
clientAwsConfig.setInsideAws( false )
               .setAccessKey( "my-access-key" )
               .setSecretKey( "my-secret-key" )
               .setRegion( "us-west-1" )
               .setHostHeader( "ec2.amazonaws.com" )
               .setSecurityGroupName( ">hazelcast-sg" )
               .setTagKey( "type" )
               .setTagValue( "hz-nodes" );
               .setIamRole( "s3access" );
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setAwsConfig( clientAwsConfig );
HazelcastInstance client = HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient( clientConfig );
```

You can refer to the [aws element section](#aws-element) for the descriptions of above AWS configuration elements except `inside-aws` and `iam-role`, which are explained below.

If the `inside-aws` element is not set, the private addresses of cluster members will always be converted to public addresses. Also, the client will use public addresses to connect to the members. In order to use private addresses, set the `inside-aws` parameter to `true`. Also note that, when connecting outside from AWS, setting the `inside-aws` parameter to `true` will cause the client to not be able to reach the members.

IAM roles are used to make secure requests from your clients. You can provide the name of your IAM role that you created previously on your AWS console using the `iam-role` or `setIamRole()` method.



### Client Load Balancer Configuration

`LoadBalancer` allows you to send operations to one of a number of endpoints (Members). Its main purpose is to determine the next `Member` if queried.  It is up to your implementation to use different load balancing policies. You should implement the interface `com.hazelcast.client.LoadBalancer` for that purpose.

If the client is configured in smart mode, only the operations that are not key-based will be routed to the endpoint that is returned by the `LoadBalancer`. If the client is not a smart client, `LoadBalancer` will be ignored.

The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client>
  ...
  <load-balancer type=“random”>
    yourLoadBalancer
  </load-balancer>
  ...
</hazelcast-client>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.setLoadBalancer(yourLoadBalancer);
```

### Client Near Cache Configuration

Hazelcast distributed map has a Near Cache feature to reduce network latencies. Since the client always requests data from the cluster nodes, it can be helpful for some of your use cases to configure a near cache on the client side.
The client supports the same Near Cache that is used in Hazelcast distributed map.

You can create Near Cache on the client side by providing a configuration per map name, as shown below.

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
CacheConfig nearCacheConfig = new NearCacheConfig();
nearCacheConfig.setName("mapName");
clientConfig.addNearCacheConfig(nearCacheConfig);
```

You can use wildcards for the map name, as shown below.

```java
nearCacheConfig.setName("map*");
nearCacheConfig.setName("*map");
```

The following is an example declarative configuration for Near Cache. 

```xml
</hazelcast-client>
	...
	...
	<near-cache name="MENU">
		<max-size>2000</max-size>
		<time-to-live-seconds>0</time-to-live-seconds>
		<max-idle-seconds>0</max-idle-seconds>
		<eviction-policy>LFU</eviction-policy>
		<invalidate-on-change>true</invalidate-on-change>
		<in-memory-format>OBJECT</in-memory-format>
	</near-cache>
	...
</hazelcast-client>
```

Name of Near Cache on the client side must be the same as the name of IMap on the server for which this Near Cache is being created.

Near Cache can have its own `in-memory-format` which is independent of the `in-memory-format` of the servers.


### Client Group Configuration
Clients should provide a group name and password in order to connect to the cluster.
You can configure them using `GroupConfig`, as shown below.

```java
clientConfig.setGroupConfig(new GroupConfig("dev","dev-pass"));
```

### Client Security Configuration

In the cases where the security established with `GroupConfig` is not enough and you want your clients connecting securely to the cluster, you can use `ClientSecurityConfig`. This configuration has a `credentials` parameter to set the IP address and UID. Please see `ClientSecurityConfig.java` in our code.


### Client Serialization Configuration

For the client side serialization, use Hazelcast configuration. Please refer to the [Serialization chapter](#serialization).


### Client Listener Configuration
You can configure global event listeners using `ListenerConfig` as shown below.


```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ListenerConfig listenerConfig = new ListenerConfig(LifecycleListenerImpl);
clientConfig.addListenerConfig(listenerConfig);
```

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ListenerConfig listenerConfig = new ListenerConfig("com.hazelcast.example.MembershipListenerImpl");
clientConfig.addListenerConfig(listenerConfig);
```

You can add three types of event listeners.

- LifecycleListener
- MembershipListener
- DistributedObjectListener


***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/LifecycleListener.java" target="_blank">LifecycleListener</a>, <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/MembershipListener.java" target="_blank">MembershipListener</a> and <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/DistributedObjectListener.java" target="_blank">DistributedObjectListener</a>.*
<br></br>


### ExecutorPoolSize

Hazelcast has an internal executor service (different from the data structure *Executor Service*) that has threads and queues to perform internal operations such as handling responses. This parameter specifies the size of the pool of threads which perform these operations laying in the executor's queue. If not configured, this parameter has the value as **5 \* *core size of the client*** (i.e. it is 20 for a machine that has 4 cores).

### ClassLoader
You can configure a custom `classLoader`. It will be used by the serialization service and to load any class configured in configuration, such as event listeners or ProxyFactories.

Commit message:

Clarifying the client-member connection attempt mechanism.

src/HazelcastJavaClient/JavaClientConfiguration.md, after:

## Java Client Configuration

Hazelcast Java Client can be configured declaratively (XML) or programmatically (API). 

For declarative configuration, the Hazelcast client looks at the following places for the client configuration file.

- **System property**: The client first checks if `hazelcast.client.config` system property is set to a file path, e.g. `-Dhazelcast.client.config=C:/myhazelcast.xml`.

- **Classpath**: If config file is not set as a system property, the client checks the classpath for `hazelcast-client.xml` file.

If the client does not find any configuration file, it starts with the default configuration (`hazelcast-client-default.xml`) located in the `hazelcast-client.jar` library. Before configuring the client, please try to work with the default configuration to see if it works for you. The default should be just fine for most users. If not, then consider custom configuration for your environment.

If you want to specify your own configuration file to create a `Config` object, the Hazelcast client supports the following.

- `Config cfg = new XmlClientConfigBuilder(xmlFileName).build();`

- `Config cfg = new XmlClientConfigBuilder(inputStream).build();`


For programmatic configuration of the Hazelcast Java Client, just instantiate a `ClientConfig` object and configure the desired aspects. An example is shown below.

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.setGroupConfig(new GroupConfig("dev","dev-pass”);
clientConfig.setLoadBalancer(yourLoadBalancer);
...
...
```


### Client Network Configuration

All network related configuration of Hazelcast Java Client is performed via the `network` element in the declarative configuration file, or in the class `ClientNetworkConfig` when using programmatic configuration. Let's first give the examples for these two approaches. Then we will look at its sub-elements and attributes.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client xsi:schemaLocation=
    "http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/client-config hazelcast-client-config-<version>.xsd"
                  xmlns="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/client-config"
                  xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
...
<network>
  <cluster-members>
    <address>127.0.0.1</address>
    <address>127.0.0.2</address>
  </cluster-members>
  <smart-routing>true</smart-routing>
  <redo-operation>true</redo-operation>
  <socket-interceptor enabled="true">
    <class-name>com.hazelcast.XYZ</class-name>
    <properties>
      <property name="kerberos-host">kerb-host-name</property>
      <property name="kerberos-config-file">kerb.conf</property>
    </properties>
   </socket-interceptor>
  <aws enabled="true" connection-timeout-seconds=“11">
    <inside-aws>false</inside-aws>
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <iam-role>s3access</iam-role>
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
```

#### Address List
Address List is the initial list of cluster addresses to which the client will connect. The client uses this list to find an alive node. Although it may be enough to give only one address of a node in the cluster (since all nodes communicate with each other), it is recommended that you give the addresses for all the nodes.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client>
  ...
  <network>
    <cluster-members>
      <address>10.1.1.21</address>
      <address>10.1.1.22:5703</address>
    </cluster-members>
  ...
  </network>
...
</hazelcast-client>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().addAddress("10.1.1.21", "10.1.1.22:5703");
```

If the port part is omitted, then 5701, 5702, and 5703 will be tried in random order.

You can provide multiple addresses with ports provided or not, as seen above. The provided list is shuffled and tried in random order. Default value is *localhost*.

#### Smart Routing

Smart routing defines whether the client mode is smart or dummy. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <smart-routing>true</smart-routing>
...
</network>
...
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().setSmartRouting(true);
```
The default is *smart client* mode.

#### Redo Operation

It enables/disables redo-able operations as described in [Retry-able Operation Failure](#retry-able-operation-failure). The following are the example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...  
  <redo-operation>true</redo-operation>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientNetworkConfig networkConfig = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig();
networkConfig().setRedoOperation(true);
```

Default is *disabled*.

#### Connection Timeout

Connection timeout is the timeout value in milliseconds for nodes to accept client connection requests. The following are the example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-timeout>5000</connection-timeout>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionTimeout(5000);
```

The default value is *5000* milliseconds.

#### Connection Attempt Limit

While the client is trying to connect initially to one of the members in the `ClientNetworkConfig.addressList`, all members might be not available. Instead of giving up, throwing an exception and stopping the client, the client will retry as many as `ClientNetworkConfig.connectionAttemptLimit` times. This is also the case when an existing client-member connection goes down. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-attempt-limit>5</connection-attempt-limit>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionAttemptLimit(5);
```

Default value is *2*.

#### Connection Attempt Period

Connection timeout period is the duration in milliseconds between the connection attempts defined by `ClientNetworkConfig.connectionAttemptLimit`. The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
...
  <connection-attempt-period>5000</connection-attempt-period>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setConnectionAttemptPeriod(5000);
```

Default value is *3000*.

#### Client Socket Interceptor

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)

Following is a client configuration to set a socket intercepter. Any class implementing `com.hazelcast.nio.SocketInterceptor` is a socket Interceptor.


```java
public interface SocketInterceptor {
    void init(Properties properties);
    void onConnect(Socket connectedSocket) throws IOException;
}
```

`SocketInterceptor` has two steps. First, it will be initialized by the configured properties. Second, it will be informed just after the socket is connected using `onConnect`.


```java
SocketInterceptorConfig socketInterceptorConfig = clientConfig
               .getNetworkConfig().getSocketInterceptorConfig();

MyClientSocketInterceptor myClientSocketInterceptor = new MyClientSocketInterceptor();

socketInterceptorConfig.setEnabled(true);
socketInterceptorConfig.setImplementation(myClientSocketInterceptor);
```

If you want to configure the socket connector with a class name instead of an instance, see the example below.

```java
SocketInterceptorConfig socketInterceptorConfig = clientConfig
            .getNetworkConfig().getSocketInterceptorConfig();

MyClientSocketInterceptor myClientSocketInterceptor = new MyClientSocketInterceptor();

socketInterceptorConfig.setEnabled(true);

//These properties are provided to interceptor during init
socketInterceptorConfig.setProperty("kerberos-host","kerb-host-name");
socketInterceptorConfig.setProperty("kerberos-config-file","kerb.conf");

socketInterceptorConfig.setClassName(myClientSocketInterceptor);
```

<br></br>
***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please see the [Socket Interceptor section](#socket-interceptor) for more information.*
<br></br>

#### Client Socket Options

You can configure the network socket options using `SocketOptions`. It has the following methods.

- `socketOptions.setKeepAlive(x)`: Enables/disables the *SO_KEEPALIVE* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setTcpNoDelay(x)`: Enables/disables the *TCP_NODELAY* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setReuseAddress(x)`: Enables/disables the *SO_REUSEADDR* socket option. The default value is `true`.

- `socketOptions.setLingerSeconds(x)`: Enables/disables *SO_LINGER* with the specified linger time in seconds. The default value is `3`.

- `socketOptions.setBufferSize(x)`: Sets the *SO_SNDBUF* and *SO_RCVBUF* options to the specified value in KB for this Socket. The default value is `32`.


```java
SocketOptions socketOptions = clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().getSocketOptions();
socketOptions.setBufferSize(32);
socketOptions.setKeepAlive(true);
socketOptions.setTcpNoDelay(true);
socketOptions.setReuseAddress(true);
socketOptions.setLingerSeconds(3);
```

#### Client SSL

![](images/enterprise-onlycopy.jpg)


You can use SSL to secure the connection between the client and the nodes. If you want SSL enabled for the client-cluster connection, you should set `SSLConfig`. Once set, the connection (socket) is established out of an SSL factory defined either by a factory class name or factory implementation. Please see the `SSLConfig` class in the `com.hazelcast.config` package at the JavaDocs page of the <a href="http://www.hazelcast.org/documentation" target="_blank">Hazelcast Documentation</a> web site.

#### Client Configuration for AWS

The example declarative and programmatic configurations below show how to configure a Java client for connecting to a Hazelcast cluster in AWS.

**Declarative**:

```xml
...
<network>
  <aws enabled="true">
    <inside-aws>false</inside-aws>
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <iam-role>s3access</iam-role>
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
...
</network>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ClientAwsConfig clientAwsConfig = new ClientAwsConfig();
clientAwsConfig.setInsideAws( false )
               .setAccessKey( "my-access-key" )
               .setSecretKey( "my-secret-key" )
               .setRegion( "us-west-1" )
               .setHostHeader( "ec2.amazonaws.com" )
               .setSecurityGroupName( ">hazelcast-sg" )
               .setTagKey( "type" )
               .setTagValue( "hz-nodes" );
               .setIamRole( "s3access" );
clientConfig.getNetworkConfig().setAwsConfig( clientAwsConfig );
HazelcastInstance client = HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient( clientConfig );
```

You can refer to the [aws element section](#aws-element) for the descriptions of above AWS configuration elements except `inside-aws` and `iam-role`, which are explained below.

If the `inside-aws` element is not set, the private addresses of cluster members will always be converted to public addresses. Also, the client will use public addresses to connect to the members. In order to use private addresses, set the `inside-aws` parameter to `true`. Also note that, when connecting outside from AWS, setting the `inside-aws` parameter to `true` will cause the client to not be able to reach the members.

IAM roles are used to make secure requests from your clients. You can provide the name of your IAM role that you created previously on your AWS console using the `iam-role` or `setIamRole()` method.



### Client Load Balancer Configuration

`LoadBalancer` allows you to send operations to one of a number of endpoints (Members). Its main purpose is to determine the next `Member` if queried.  It is up to your implementation to use different load balancing policies. You should implement the interface `com.hazelcast.client.LoadBalancer` for that purpose.

If the client is configured in smart mode, only the operations that are not key-based will be routed to the endpoint that is returned by the `LoadBalancer`. If the client is not a smart client, `LoadBalancer` will be ignored.

The following are example configurations.

**Declarative**:

```xml
<hazelcast-client>
  ...
  <load-balancer type=“random”>
    yourLoadBalancer
  </load-balancer>
  ...
</hazelcast-client>
```

**Programmatic**:

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
clientConfig.setLoadBalancer(yourLoadBalancer);
```

### Client Near Cache Configuration

Hazelcast distributed map has a Near Cache feature to reduce network latencies. Since the client always requests data from the cluster nodes, it can be helpful for some of your use cases to configure a near cache on the client side.
The client supports the same Near Cache that is used in Hazelcast distributed map.

You can create Near Cache on the client side by providing a configuration per map name, as shown below.

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
CacheConfig nearCacheConfig = new NearCacheConfig();
nearCacheConfig.setName("mapName");
clientConfig.addNearCacheConfig(nearCacheConfig);
```

You can use wildcards for the map name, as shown below.

```java
nearCacheConfig.setName("map*");
nearCacheConfig.setName("*map");
```

The following is an example declarative configuration for Near Cache. 

```xml
</hazelcast-client>
	...
	...
	<near-cache name="MENU">
		<max-size>2000</max-size>
		<time-to-live-seconds>0</time-to-live-seconds>
		<max-idle-seconds>0</max-idle-seconds>
		<eviction-policy>LFU</eviction-policy>
		<invalidate-on-change>true</invalidate-on-change>
		<in-memory-format>OBJECT</in-memory-format>
	</near-cache>
	...
</hazelcast-client>
```

Name of Near Cache on the client side must be the same as the name of IMap on the server for which this Near Cache is being created.

Near Cache can have its own `in-memory-format` which is independent of the `in-memory-format` of the servers.


### Client Group Configuration
Clients should provide a group name and password in order to connect to the cluster.
You can configure them using `GroupConfig`, as shown below.

```java
clientConfig.setGroupConfig(new GroupConfig("dev","dev-pass"));
```

### Client Security Configuration

In the cases where the security established with `GroupConfig` is not enough and you want your clients connecting securely to the cluster, you can use `ClientSecurityConfig`. This configuration has a `credentials` parameter to set the IP address and UID. Please see `ClientSecurityConfig.java` in our code.


### Client Serialization Configuration

For the client side serialization, use Hazelcast configuration. Please refer to the [Serialization chapter](#serialization).


### Client Listener Configuration
You can configure global event listeners using `ListenerConfig` as shown below.


```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ListenerConfig listenerConfig = new ListenerConfig(LifecycleListenerImpl);
clientConfig.addListenerConfig(listenerConfig);
```

```java
ClientConfig clientConfig = new ClientConfig();
ListenerConfig listenerConfig = new ListenerConfig("com.hazelcast.example.MembershipListenerImpl");
clientConfig.addListenerConfig(listenerConfig);
```

You can add three types of event listeners.

- LifecycleListener
- MembershipListener
- DistributedObjectListener


***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/LifecycleListener.java" target="_blank">LifecycleListener</a>, <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/MembershipListener.java" target="_blank">MembershipListener</a> and <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/DistributedObjectListener.java" target="_blank">DistributedObjectListener</a>.*
<br></br>


### ExecutorPoolSize

Hazelcast has an internal executor service (different from the data structure *Executor Service*) that has threads and queues to perform internal operations such as handling responses. This parameter specifies the size of the pool of threads which perform these operations laying in the executor's queue. If not configured, this parameter has the value as **5 \* *core size of the client*** (i.e. it is 20 for a machine that has 4 cores).

### ClassLoader
You can configure a custom `classLoader`. It will be used by the serialization service and to load any class configured in configuration, such as event listeners or ProxyFactories.
