src/ClusterUtilities.md, before:



## Cluster Utilities


### Cluster Interface

Hazelcast allows you to register for membership events so you will be notified when members are added or removed. You can also get the set of cluster members.

```java
import com.hazelcast.core.*;

HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
Cluster cluster = hazelcastInstance.getCluster();
cluster.addMembershipListener( new MembershipListener() {
  public void memberAdded( MembershipEvent membershipEvent ) {
    System.out.println( "MemberAdded " + membershipEvent );
  }

  public void memberRemoved( MembershipEvent membershipEvent ) {
    System.out.println( "MemberRemoved " + membershipEvent );
  }
} );

Member localMember  = cluster.getLocalMember();
System.out.println ( "my inetAddress= " + localMember.getInetAddress() );

Set setMembers  = cluster.getMembers();
for ( Member member : setMembers ) {
  System.out.println( "isLocalMember " + member.localMember() );
  System.out.println( "member.inetaddress " + member.getInetAddress() );
  System.out.println( "member.port " + member.getPort() );
}
```

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to the [Membership Listener section](#membership-listener) for more information on membership events.*

Commit message:

Intro for Cluster Utilities section authored to comply with the style guide.

src/ClusterUtilities.md, after:



## Cluster Utilities

This section provides information on programmatic utilities you can use to listen to the cluster events, to check whether the cluster and/or members are safe before shutting down a member, and to define the minimum number of cluster members required for the cluster to remain up and running.

### Cluster Interface

Hazelcast allows you to register for membership events so you will be notified when members are added or removed. You can also get the set of cluster members.

```java
import com.hazelcast.core.*;

HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
Cluster cluster = hazelcastInstance.getCluster();
cluster.addMembershipListener( new MembershipListener() {
  public void memberAdded( MembershipEvent membershipEvent ) {
    System.out.println( "MemberAdded " + membershipEvent );
  }

  public void memberRemoved( MembershipEvent membershipEvent ) {
    System.out.println( "MemberRemoved " + membershipEvent );
  }
} );

Member localMember  = cluster.getLocalMember();
System.out.println ( "my inetAddress= " + localMember.getInetAddress() );

Set setMembers  = cluster.getMembers();
for ( Member member : setMembers ) {
  System.out.println( "isLocalMember " + member.localMember() );
  System.out.println( "member.inetaddress " + member.getInetAddress() );
  System.out.println( "member.port " + member.getPort() );
}
```

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to the [Membership Listener section](#membership-listener) for more information on membership events.*
