src/EC2AutoDiscovery.md, before:


### EC2 Auto Discovery

Hazelcast supports EC2 Auto Discovery. It is useful when you do not want or cannot provide the list of possible IP addresses. To configure your cluster to use EC2 Auto Discovery, disable join over multicast and TCP/IP, enable AWS, and provide your credentials (access and secret keys). 

You need to add *hazelcast-cloud.jar* dependency to your project. Note that it is also bundled inside *hazelcast-all.jar*. The Hazelcast cloud module does not depend on any other third party modules.

Below is a configuration example. 

```xml
<join>
  <multicast enabled="false">
    <multicast-group>224.2.2.3</multicast-group>
    <multicast-port>54327</multicast-port>
  </multicast>
  <tcp-ip enabled="false">
    <interface>192.168.1.2</interface>
  </tcp-ip>
  <aws enabled="true">
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <!-- optional, default is us-east-1 -->
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <!-- optional, default is ec2.amazonaws.com. If set, region 
         shouldn't be set as it will override this property -->
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <!-- optional -->
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <!-- optional -->
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <!-- optional -->
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
</join>
```

The `aws` element accepts an attribute called `connection-timeout-seconds` whose default value is 5. Increasing this value is recommended if you have many IPs listed and members cannot properly build up the cluster.

The parameter `region` specifies where the members are running. Its default value is `us-east-1`. If the cluster is running on a different region, you must specify it here. Otherwise, the cluster will not be formed since the members will not discover each other.

The parameters `tag-key` and `tag-value` provides unique keys and values for members so that you can create multiple clusters in one data center.

You can use the parameter `security-group-name` to filter/group members.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *If you are using a cloud provider other than AWS, you can use the programmatic configuration to specify a TCP/IP cluster. The members will need to be retrieved from that provider (e.g. JClouds).*

#### AWSClient

To make sure EC2 instances are found correctly, you can use the `AWSClient` class. It determines the private IP addresses of EC2 instances to be connected. Just give the values of the parameters you specified in the `aws` element to this class, as shown below. You will see whether your EC2 instances are found.

```java
public static void main( String[] args )throws Exception{ 
  AwsConfig config = new AwsConfig(); 
  config.setSecretKey( ... ) ;
  config.setSecretKey( ... );
  config.setRegion( ... );
  config.setSecurityGroupName( ... );
  config.setTagKey( ... );
  config.setTagValue( ... );
  config.setEnabled("true");
  AWSClient client = new AWSClient( config );
  List<String> ipAddresses = client.getPrivateIpAddresses();
  System.out.println( "addresses found:" + ipAddresses ); 
  for ( String ip: ipAddresses ) {
    System.out.println( ip ); 
  }
}
``` 

#### Debugging

When and if needed, Hazelcast can log the events for the instances that exist in a region. To see what has happened or to trace the activities while forming the cluster, change the log level in your logging mechanism to FINEST or DEBUG. After this change, you can also see whether the instances are accepted or rejected, and the reason the instances were rejected in the generated log. Note that changing the log level to one of the mentioned levels may affect the performance of the cluster.

<br> </br>
***RELATED INFORMATION***

*You can download the white paper *"Hazelcast on AWS: Best Practices for Deployment"* from [Hazelcast.com](http://hazelcast.com/resources/hazelcast-on-aws-best-practices-for-deployment/).*
<br> </br>

Commit message:

Amazon Security Group port advice.

src/EC2AutoDiscovery.md, after:


### EC2 Auto Discovery

Hazelcast supports EC2 Auto Discovery. It is useful when you do not want or cannot provide the list of possible IP addresses. To configure your cluster to use EC2 Auto Discovery, disable join over multicast and TCP/IP, enable AWS, and provide your credentials (access and secret keys). 

You need to add *hazelcast-cloud.jar* dependency to your project. Note that it is also bundled inside *hazelcast-all.jar*. The Hazelcast cloud module does not depend on any other third party modules.

Below is a configuration example. 

```xml
<join>
  <multicast enabled="false">
    <multicast-group>224.2.2.3</multicast-group>
    <multicast-port>54327</multicast-port>
  </multicast>
  <tcp-ip enabled="false">
    <interface>192.168.1.2</interface>
  </tcp-ip>
  <aws enabled="true">
    <access-key>my-access-key</access-key>
    <secret-key>my-secret-key</secret-key>
    <!-- optional, default is us-east-1 -->
    <region>us-west-1</region>
    <!-- optional, default is ec2.amazonaws.com. If set, region 
         shouldn't be set as it will override this property -->
    <host-header>ec2.amazonaws.com</host-header>
    <!-- optional -->
    <security-group-name>hazelcast-sg</security-group-name>
    <!-- optional -->
    <tag-key>type</tag-key>
    <!-- optional -->
    <tag-value>hz-nodes</tag-value>
  </aws>
</join>
```

The `aws` element accepts an attribute called `connection-timeout-seconds` whose default value is 5. Increasing this value is recommended if you have many IPs listed and members cannot properly build up the cluster.

The parameter `region` specifies where the members are running. Its default value is `us-east-1`. If the cluster is running on a different region, you must specify it here. Otherwise, the cluster will not be formed since the members will not discover each other.

The parameters `tag-key` and `tag-value` provides unique keys and values for members so that you can create multiple clusters in one data center.

You can use the parameter `security-group-name` to filter/group members.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE***: *When you create your EC2 security group ensure that you have the relevant TCP/IP ports open.  In Hazelcasts case the default ports are 5701 and upwards as you add more instances to a machine.*

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *If you are using a cloud provider other than AWS, you can use the programmatic configuration to specify a TCP/IP cluster. The members will need to be retrieved from that provider (e.g. JClouds).*

#### AWSClient

To make sure EC2 instances are found correctly, you can use the `AWSClient` class. It determines the private IP addresses of EC2 instances to be connected. Just give the values of the parameters you specified in the `aws` element to this class, as shown below. You will see whether your EC2 instances are found.

```java
public static void main( String[] args )throws Exception{ 
  AwsConfig config = new AwsConfig(); 
  config.setSecretKey( ... ) ;
  config.setSecretKey( ... );
  config.setRegion( ... );
  config.setSecurityGroupName( ... );
  config.setTagKey( ... );
  config.setTagValue( ... );
  config.setEnabled("true");
  AWSClient client = new AWSClient( config );
  List<String> ipAddresses = client.getPrivateIpAddresses();
  System.out.println( "addresses found:" + ipAddresses ); 
  for ( String ip: ipAddresses ) {
    System.out.println( ip ); 
  }
}
``` 

#### Debugging

When and if needed, Hazelcast can log the events for the instances that exist in a region. To see what has happened or to trace the activities while forming the cluster, change the log level in your logging mechanism to FINEST or DEBUG. After this change, you can also see whether the instances are accepted or rejected, and the reason the instances were rejected in the generated log. Note that changing the log level to one of the mentioned levels may affect the performance of the cluster.

<br> </br>
***RELATED INFORMATION***

*You can download the white paper *"Hazelcast on AWS: Best Practices for Deployment"* from [Hazelcast.com](http://hazelcast.com/resources/hazelcast-on-aws-best-practices-for-deployment/).*
<br> </br>
