src/HazelcastJet.md, before:



# Hazelcast Jet

![Note](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *This chapter briefly describes Hazelcast Jet. For detailed information and Jet documentation, please visit [jet.hazelcast.org](https://jet.hazelcast.org/).*

## Overview

Hazelcast Jet, built on top of the Hazelcast IMDG, is a distributed processing engine for fast stream and batch processing of large data sets. It reuses the features and services of Hazelcast IMDG, but it is a separate product with features not available in IMDG. 

With Hazelcast IMDG providing storage functionality, Jet performs parallel execution in a Hazelcast Jet cluster, composed of Jet instances, to enable data-intensive applications to operate in near real-time. Jet uses green threads (threads that are scheduled by a runtime library or VM) to achieve this parallel execution. 

Since Jet uses Hazelcast IMDG’s discovery mechanisms, it can be used both on-premises and on the cloud environments. Hazelcast Jet typically runs on several machines that form a cluster. 

#### How You Can Use It

The Pipeline API is the primary high-level API of Hazelcast Jet for batch and stream processing. This API is easy-to-use and set-up providing you with the tools to compose batch computations from building blocks such as filters, aggregators and joiners - saving time and resource. With Pipeline API, you can build bounded and unbounded data pipelines on a variety of sources and sinks.

In addition to the Pipeline API, Jet also offers a distributed implementation of `java.util.stream`. You can express your computation over any data source Jet supports using the familiar API from the JDK 8. This distributed implementation can be used for simple transform and reduce operations on top of IMap and IList.

You can also use Jet's Core API to build custom data sources and sinks, to have a low-level control over the data flow, to fine-tune performance and build DSLs.

Please see the [Work with Jet](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Start_Jet_and_Submit_Jobs_to_It) section in the Hazelcast Jet Reference Manual to see a simple example.

#### Where You Can Use It

Hazelcast Jet is appropriate for applications that require a near real-time experience such as operations in IoT architectures (house thermostats, lighting systems, etc.), in-store e-commerce systems and social media platforms. Typical use cases include the following:

- Real-time (low-latency) stream processing
- Fast batch processing
- Streaming analytics
- Complex event processing
- Implementing event sourcing and CQRS (Command Query Responsibility Segregation)
- Internet-of-things (IoT) data ingestion, processing and storage
- Data processing microservice architectures
- Online trading
- Social media platforms
- System log events

The aforementioned use cases require huge amounts of data to be processed in near real-time. Hazelcast Jet achieves this by processing the incoming records as soon as possible,  hence lowering the latency, and ingesting the data at high-velocity. Jet's execution model and keeping both the computation and data storage in memory enables high application speeds.


## Data Processing Styles

The data processing is traditionally divided into batch and stream processing.

Batch data is considered as bounded, i.e., finite, and fast batch processing typically may refer to running a job on a data set which is available in a data center. You simply provide one or more pre-existing datasets and order Hazelcast Jet to mine them for the information you need.

Stream data is considered as unbounded, i.e., infinite, and infinite stream processing deals with in-flight data before it is stored. It offers lower latency; data is processed on-the-fly and you do not have to wait for the whole data set to arrive in order to run a computation.


## Relationship with Hazelcast IMDG

Hazelcast Jet leans on Hazelcast IMDG for cluster management and deployment, data partitioning, and networking; all the services of IMDG are available to your Jet Jobs (units of work which are executed). A Jet instance is also a fully functional Hazelcast IMDG instance and a Jet cluster is also a Hazelcast IMDG cluster. 

A Jet job is implemented as a Hazelcast IMDG proxy, similar to the other services and data structures in Hazelcast. Hazelcast operations are used for different actions that can be performed on a job. Jet can also be used with the Hazelcast Client, which uses the Hazelcast Open Binary Protocol to communicate different actions to the server instance.

In the Hazelcast Jet world, Hazelcast IMDG can be used for data ingestion prior to processing, 
connecting multiple Jet jobs, enriching processed events, caching the remote data, distributing Jet-processed data, and running advanced data processing tasks on top of IMDG data structures.

Hazelcast Jet can use Hazelcast IMDG's **IMap**, **ICache** and **IList** on the embedded cluster as sources (data structures from which Jet reads data) and sinks (data structures to which Jet writes data). IMap and ICache are partitioned data structures distributed across the cluster and Jet members can read from these structures by having each member read just its local partitions. Hazelcast IMDG's IList is stored on a single partition; all the data will be read on the single member that owns that partition. Please refer to [IMap and ICache](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Source_and_Sink_Connectors/Hazelcast_IMDG#page_IMap+and+ICache) and [IList]([here](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Source_and_Sink_Connectors/Hazelcast_IMDG#page_IList) in the Hazelcast Jet Reference Manual to learn how Jet uses these IMDG data structures. In addition to these data structures, Jet can also process a stream of changes of IMap and ICache, using the [Event Journal](#event-journal).

You can use Hazelcast Jet with embedded Hazelcast IMDG or a remote Hazelcast IMDG cluster. Benefits of using Hazelcast Jet with embedded Hazelcast IMDG are as follows:

- Sharing the processing state among Jet Jobs.
- Caching intermediate processing results.
- Enriching processed events; cache remote data, e.g., fact tables from a database, on Jet members.
- Running advanced data processing tasks on top of Hazelcast data structures.
- Improving development processes by making start up of a Jet cluster simple and fast.

Jet Jobs use Hazelcast IMDG connector by allowing reading and writing records to/from a remote Hazelcast IMDG instance. You can use a remote Hazelcast IMDG cluster for the following cases:

- Distributing data across IMap, ICache and IList structures.
- Sharing state or intermediate results among more Jet clusters.
- Isolating the processing cluster (Jet) from operational data storage cluster (IMDG).
- Publishing intermediate results, e.g., to show real-time processing stats on a dashboard.

Commit message:

Added IMDG Computing vs. Jet content.

src/HazelcastJet.md, after:



# Hazelcast Jet

![Note](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *This chapter briefly describes Hazelcast Jet. For detailed information and Jet documentation, please visit [jet.hazelcast.org](https://jet.hazelcast.org/).*

## Overview

Hazelcast Jet, built on top of the Hazelcast IMDG, is a distributed processing engine for fast stream and batch processing of large data sets. It reuses the features and services of Hazelcast IMDG, but it is a separate product with features not available in IMDG. 

With Hazelcast IMDG providing storage functionality, Jet performs parallel execution in a Hazelcast Jet cluster, composed of Jet instances, to enable data-intensive applications to operate in near real-time. Jet uses green threads (threads that are scheduled by a runtime library or VM) to achieve this parallel execution. 

Since Jet uses Hazelcast IMDG’s discovery mechanisms, it can be used both on-premises and on the cloud environments. Hazelcast Jet typically runs on several machines that form a cluster. 

### How You Can Use It

The Pipeline API is the primary high-level API of Hazelcast Jet for batch and stream processing. This API is easy-to-use and set-up providing you with the tools to compose batch computations from building blocks such as filters, aggregators and joiners - saving time and resource. With Pipeline API, you can build bounded and unbounded data pipelines on a variety of sources and sinks.

In addition to the Pipeline API, Jet also offers a distributed implementation of `java.util.stream`. You can express your computation over any data source Jet supports using the familiar API from the JDK 8. This distributed implementation can be used for simple transform and reduce operations on top of IMap and IList.

You can also use Jet's Core API to build custom data sources and sinks, to have a low-level control over the data flow, to fine-tune performance and build DSLs.

Please see the [Work with Jet](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Start_Jet_and_Submit_Jobs_to_It) section in the Hazelcast Jet Reference Manual to see a simple example.

### Where You Can Use It

Hazelcast Jet is appropriate for applications that require a near real-time experience such as operations in IoT architectures (house thermostats, lighting systems, etc.), in-store e-commerce systems and social media platforms. Typical use cases include the following:

- Real-time (low-latency) stream processing
- Fast batch processing
- Streaming analytics
- Complex event processing
- Implementing event sourcing and CQRS (Command Query Responsibility Segregation)
- Internet-of-things (IoT) data ingestion, processing and storage
- Data processing microservice architectures
- Online trading
- Social media platforms
- System log events

The aforementioned use cases require huge amounts of data to be processed in near real-time. Hazelcast Jet achieves this by processing the incoming records as soon as possible,  hence lowering the latency, and ingesting the data at high-velocity. Jet's execution model and keeping both the computation and data storage in memory enables high application speeds.


### Data Processing Styles

The data processing is traditionally divided into batch and stream processing.

Batch data is considered as bounded, i.e., finite, and fast batch processing typically may refer to running a job on a data set which is available in a data center. You simply provide one or more pre-existing datasets and order Hazelcast Jet to mine them for the information you need.

Stream data is considered as unbounded, i.e., infinite, and infinite stream processing deals with in-flight data before it is stored. It offers lower latency; data is processed on-the-fly and you do not have to wait for the whole data set to arrive in order to run a computation.


## Relationship with Hazelcast IMDG

Hazelcast Jet leans on Hazelcast IMDG for cluster management and deployment, data partitioning, and networking; all the services of IMDG are available to your Jet Jobs (units of work which are executed). A Jet instance is also a fully functional Hazelcast IMDG instance and a Jet cluster is also a Hazelcast IMDG cluster. 

A Jet job is implemented as a Hazelcast IMDG proxy, similar to the other services and data structures in Hazelcast. Hazelcast operations are used for different actions that can be performed on a job. Jet can also be used with the Hazelcast Client, which uses the Hazelcast Open Binary Protocol to communicate different actions to the server instance.

In the Hazelcast Jet world, Hazelcast IMDG can be used for data ingestion prior to processing, 
connecting multiple Jet jobs, enriching processed events, caching the remote data, distributing Jet-processed data, and running advanced data processing tasks on top of IMDG data structures.

Hazelcast Jet can use Hazelcast IMDG's **IMap**, **ICache** and **IList** on the embedded cluster as sources (data structures from which Jet reads data) and sinks (data structures to which Jet writes data). IMap and ICache are partitioned data structures distributed across the cluster and Jet members can read from these structures by having each member read just its local partitions. Hazelcast IMDG's IList is stored on a single partition; all the data will be read on the single member that owns that partition. Please refer to [IMap and ICache](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Source_and_Sink_Connectors/Hazelcast_IMDG#page_IMap+and+ICache) and [IList]([here](http://docs.hazelcast.org/docs/jet/0.5/manual/Work_with_Jet/Source_and_Sink_Connectors/Hazelcast_IMDG#page_IList) in the Hazelcast Jet Reference Manual to learn how Jet uses these IMDG data structures. In addition to these data structures, Jet can also process a stream of changes of IMap and ICache, using the [Event Journal](#event-journal).

You can use Hazelcast Jet with embedded Hazelcast IMDG or a remote Hazelcast IMDG cluster. Benefits of using Hazelcast Jet with embedded Hazelcast IMDG are as follows:

- Sharing the processing state among Jet Jobs.
- Caching intermediate processing results.
- Enriching processed events; cache remote data, e.g., fact tables from a database, on Jet members.
- Running advanced data processing tasks on top of Hazelcast data structures.
- Improving development processes by making start up of a Jet cluster simple and fast.

Jet Jobs use Hazelcast IMDG connector by allowing reading and writing records to/from a remote Hazelcast IMDG instance. You can use a remote Hazelcast IMDG cluster for the following cases:

- Distributing data across IMap, ICache and IList structures.
- Sharing state or intermediate results among more Jet clusters.
- Isolating the processing cluster (Jet) from operational data storage cluster (IMDG).
- Publishing intermediate results, e.g., to show real-time processing stats on a dashboard.

### Hazelcast IMDG Computing vs. Hazelcast Jet

As described in the [Fast-Aggregations section](#fast-aggregations) Hazelcast IMDG has native support for aggregation operations on the contents of its distributed data structures.

Fast-Aggregations are a good fit for simple operations (count, distinct, sum, avg, min, max, etc.). However, they may not be sufficient for operations that group data by key and produce the results of size O(keyCount). The architecture of Hazelcast aggregations is not well suited to this use case, although it will still work even for moderately sized results (up to 100 MB, as a ballpark figure). Hazelcast Jet can be the preferred choice for larger sized results and whenever something more than a single aggregation step is needed. Please see the [Jet Compared with New Aggregations section](#jet-compared-with-new-aggregations).

Another Hazelcast IMDG computing feature is [Entry Processors](#entry-processor). They are used for fast mutating operations in an atomic way, in which the map entry is mutated by executing logic directly on the JVM where the data resides. And this means the network hops are reduced and atomicity is provided in a single step. Keeping this in mind, you can use Hazelcast IMDG Entry Processors when they perform bulk mutations of an IMap, where the processing function is fast and involves a single map entry per call. On the other hand, you can prefer to use Hazelcast Jet when the processing involves multiple entries (aggregations, joins, etc.), or involves multiple computing steps to be made parallel, or when the data source and sink are not a single IMap instance.
