src/IAtomicLong.md, before:


## IAtomicLong

Hazelcast `IAtomicLong` is the distributed implementation of `java.util.concurrent.atomic.AtomicLong`. It offers most of AtomicLong's operations such as `get`, `set`, `getAndSet`, `compareAndSet` and `incrementAndGet`. Since IAtomicLong is a distributed implementation, these operations involve remote calls and thus their performances differ from AtomicLong.


The following example code creates an instance, increments it by a million, and prints the count.

```java
public class Member {
  public static void main( String[] args ) {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance(); 	
    IAtomicLong counter = hazelcastInstance.getAtomicLong( "counter" );
    for ( int k = 0; k < 1000 * 1000; k++ ) {
	  if ( k % 500000 == 0 ) {
	    System.out.println( "At: " + k );
      }
      counter.incrementAndGet();
    }
    System.out.printf( "Count is %s\n", counter.get() );
  }
}
```

When you start other instances with the code above, you will see the count as *member count* times *a million*.

### Sending Functions to IAtomicLong

You can send functions to an IAtomicLong. `IFunction` is a Hazelcast owned, single method interface. The following sample `IFunction` implementation adds two to the original value.

```java
private static class Add2Function implements IFunction <Long, Long> { 
  @Override
  public Long apply( Long input ) { 
    return input + 2;
  }
}
```

### Executing Functions on IAtomicLong

You can use the following methods to execute functions on IAtomicLong.

- `apply`: Applies the function to the value in IAtomicLong without changing the actual value and returning the result.
- `alter`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function. It will not send back a result.
- `alterAndGet`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function, storing the result in the IAtomicLong and returning the result.
- `getAndAlter`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function and returning the original value.

The following sample code includes these methods.

```java
public class Member {
  public static void main( String[] args ) {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance(); 		
    IAtomicLong atomicLong = hazelcastInstance.getAtomicLong( "counter" );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    long result = atomicLong.apply( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "apply.result: " + result); 		
    System.out.println( "apply.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    atomicLong.alter( new Add2Function() ); 			
    System.out.println( "alter.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    result = atomicLong.alterAndGet( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "alterAndGet.result: " + result ); 		
    System.out.println( "alterAndGet.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    result = atomicLong.getAndAlter( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "getAndAlter.result: " + result ); 		
    System.out.println( "getAndAlter.value: " + atomicLong.get() );
  }
}
```

### Reasons to Use Functions with IAtomic

The reason for using a function instead of a simple code line like `atomicLong.set(atomicLong.get() + 2));` is that the IAtomicLong read and write operations are not atomic. Since `IAtomicLong` is a distributed implementation, those operations can be remote ones, which may lead to race problems. By using functions, the data is not pulled into the code, but the code is sent to the data. This makes it more scalable.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *IAtomicLong has one synchronous backup and no asynchronous backups. Its backup count is not configurable.*

Commit message:

Add links to consistency section from concurrent data structures

src/IAtomicLong.md, after:


## IAtomicLong

Hazelcast `IAtomicLong` is the distributed implementation of `java.util.concurrent.atomic.AtomicLong`. It offers most of AtomicLong's operations such as `get`, `set`, `getAndSet`, `compareAndSet` and `incrementAndGet`. Since IAtomicLong is a distributed implementation, these operations involve remote calls and thus their performances differ from AtomicLong.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *The `IAtomicLong` may break it's consistency guarantees in some edge cases. Please see [Consistency and Replication Model](#consistency-and-replication-model) for more details on the guarantees Hazelcast provides.*


The following example code creates an instance, increments it by a million, and prints the count.

```java
public class Member {
  public static void main( String[] args ) {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance(); 	
    IAtomicLong counter = hazelcastInstance.getAtomicLong( "counter" );
    for ( int k = 0; k < 1000 * 1000; k++ ) {
	  if ( k % 500000 == 0 ) {
	    System.out.println( "At: " + k );
      }
      counter.incrementAndGet();
    }
    System.out.printf( "Count is %s\n", counter.get() );
  }
}
```

When you start other instances with the code above, you will see the count as *member count* times *a million*.

### Sending Functions to IAtomicLong

You can send functions to an IAtomicLong. `IFunction` is a Hazelcast owned, single method interface. The following sample `IFunction` implementation adds two to the original value.

```java
private static class Add2Function implements IFunction <Long, Long> { 
  @Override
  public Long apply( Long input ) { 
    return input + 2;
  }
}
```

### Executing Functions on IAtomicLong

You can use the following methods to execute functions on IAtomicLong.

- `apply`: Applies the function to the value in IAtomicLong without changing the actual value and returning the result.
- `alter`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function. It will not send back a result.
- `alterAndGet`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function, storing the result in the IAtomicLong and returning the result.
- `getAndAlter`: Alters the value stored in the IAtomicLong by applying the function and returning the original value.

The following sample code includes these methods.

```java
public class Member {
  public static void main( String[] args ) {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance(); 		
    IAtomicLong atomicLong = hazelcastInstance.getAtomicLong( "counter" );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    long result = atomicLong.apply( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "apply.result: " + result); 		
    System.out.println( "apply.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    atomicLong.alter( new Add2Function() ); 			
    System.out.println( "alter.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    result = atomicLong.alterAndGet( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "alterAndGet.result: " + result ); 		
    System.out.println( "alterAndGet.value: " + atomicLong.get() );

    atomicLong.set( 1 );
    result = atomicLong.getAndAlter( new Add2Function() ); 		
    System.out.println( "getAndAlter.result: " + result ); 		
    System.out.println( "getAndAlter.value: " + atomicLong.get() );
  }
}
```

### Reasons to Use Functions with IAtomic

The reason for using a function instead of a simple code line like `atomicLong.set(atomicLong.get() + 2));` is that the IAtomicLong read and write operations are not atomic. Since `IAtomicLong` is a distributed implementation, those operations can be remote ones, which may lead to race problems. By using functions, the data is not pulled into the code, but the code is sent to the data. This makes it more scalable.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *IAtomicLong has one synchronous backup and no asynchronous backups. Its backup count is not configurable.*
