src/ICountDownLatch.md, before:



## ICountDownLatch

Hazelcast `ICountDownLatch` is the distributed implementation of `java.util.concurrent.CountDownLatch`.

### Gate-Keeping Concurrent Activities

`CountDownLatch` is considered to be a gate keeper for concurrent activities. It enables the threads to wait for other threads to complete their operations.

The following code samples describe the mechanism of `ICountDownLatch`. Assume that there is a leader process and there are follower processes that will wait until the leader completes. Here is the leader:

```java
public class Leader {
  public static void main( String[] args ) throws Exception {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
    ICountDownLatch latch = hazelcastInstance.getCountDownLatch( "countDownLatch" );
    System.out.println( "Starting" );
    latch.trySetCount( 1 );
    Thread.sleep( 30000 );
    latch.countDown();
    System.out.println( "Leader finished" );
    latch.destroy();
  }
}
```

Since only a single step is needed to be completed as a sample, the above code initializes the latch with 1. Then, the code sleeps for a while to simulate a process and starts the countdown. Finally, it clears up the latch. Let's write a follower:


```java
public class Follower {
  public static void main( String[] args ) throws Exception {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
    ICountDownLatch latch = hazelcastInstance.getCountDownLatch( "countDownLatch" );
    System.out.println( "Waiting" );
    boolean success = latch.await( 10, TimeUnit.SECONDS );
    System.out.println( "Complete: " + success );
  }
} 
```

The follower class above first retrieves `ICountDownLatch` and then calls the `await` method to enable the thread to listen for the latch. The method `await` has a timeout value as a parameter. This is useful when the `countDown` method fails. To see `ICountDownLatch` in action, start the leader first and then start one or more followers. You will see that the followers will wait until the leader completes.

### Recovering From Failure

In a distributed environment, the counting down cluster member may go down. In this case, all listeners are notified immediately and automatically by Hazelcast. The state of the current process just before the failure should be verified and 'how to continue now' should be decided, e.g., restart all process operations, continue with the first failed process operation, and throw an exception.

### Using ICountDownLatch

Although the `ICountDownLatch` is a very useful synchronization aid, you will probably not use it on a daily basis. Unlike Java’s implementation, Hazelcast’s `ICountDownLatch` count can be reset after a countdown has finished, but not during an active count.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *ICountDownLatch has 1 synchronous backup and no asynchronous backups. Its backup count is not configurable. Also, the count cannot be re-set during an active count, it should be re-set after the countdown is finished.*

Commit message:

Add links to consistency section from concurrent data structures

src/ICountDownLatch.md, after:



## ICountDownLatch

Hazelcast `ICountDownLatch` is the distributed implementation of `java.util.concurrent.CountDownLatch`.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *The `ICountDownLatch` may break it's consistency guarantees in some edge cases. Please see [Consistency and Replication Model](#consistency-and-replication-model) for more details on the guarantees Hazelcast provides.*

### Gate-Keeping Concurrent Activities

`CountDownLatch` is considered to be a gate keeper for concurrent activities. It enables the threads to wait for other threads to complete their operations.

The following code samples describe the mechanism of `ICountDownLatch`. Assume that there is a leader process and there are follower processes that will wait until the leader completes. Here is the leader:

```java
public class Leader {
  public static void main( String[] args ) throws Exception {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
    ICountDownLatch latch = hazelcastInstance.getCountDownLatch( "countDownLatch" );
    System.out.println( "Starting" );
    latch.trySetCount( 1 );
    Thread.sleep( 30000 );
    latch.countDown();
    System.out.println( "Leader finished" );
    latch.destroy();
  }
}
```

Since only a single step is needed to be completed as a sample, the above code initializes the latch with 1. Then, the code sleeps for a while to simulate a process and starts the countdown. Finally, it clears up the latch. Let's write a follower:


```java
public class Follower {
  public static void main( String[] args ) throws Exception {
    HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = Hazelcast.newHazelcastInstance();
    ICountDownLatch latch = hazelcastInstance.getCountDownLatch( "countDownLatch" );
    System.out.println( "Waiting" );
    boolean success = latch.await( 10, TimeUnit.SECONDS );
    System.out.println( "Complete: " + success );
  }
} 
```

The follower class above first retrieves `ICountDownLatch` and then calls the `await` method to enable the thread to listen for the latch. The method `await` has a timeout value as a parameter. This is useful when the `countDown` method fails. To see `ICountDownLatch` in action, start the leader first and then start one or more followers. You will see that the followers will wait until the leader completes.

### Recovering From Failure

In a distributed environment, the counting down cluster member may go down. In this case, all listeners are notified immediately and automatically by Hazelcast. The state of the current process just before the failure should be verified and 'how to continue now' should be decided, e.g., restart all process operations, continue with the first failed process operation, and throw an exception.

### Using ICountDownLatch

Although the `ICountDownLatch` is a very useful synchronization aid, you will probably not use it on a daily basis. Unlike Java’s implementation, Hazelcast’s `ICountDownLatch` count can be reset after a countdown has finished, but not during an active count.

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *ICountDownLatch has 1 synchronous backup and no asynchronous backups. Its backup count is not configurable. Also, the count cannot be re-set during an active count, it should be re-set after the countdown is finished.*
