src/ManagingClusterState.md, before:




### Managing Cluster and Member States

Starting with the release of 3.6, Hazelcast introduces cluster and member states in addition to the default `ACTIVE` state. This section explains these states of Hazelcast clusters and members which you can use to allow or restrict the designated cluster/member operations.

#### Cluster States

By changing the state of your cluster, you can allow/restrict several cluster operations or change the behavior of those operations. You can use the methods `changeClusterState()` and `shutdown()` which are in the <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/Cluster.java" target="_blank">Cluster interface</a> to change your cluster's state.

 Hazelcast clusters have the following states:

- **`ACTIVE`**: This is the default cluster state. Cluster continues to operate without restrictions.
<br></br>
- **`FROZEN`**: 
	- In this state, the partition table is frozen and partition assignments are not performed. 
	- Your cluster does not accept new members. 
	- If a member leaves, it can join back. Its partition assignments (both primary and replica) remain the same until either it joins back or the cluster state is changed to `ACTIVE`. When it joins back to the cluster, it will own all previous partition assignments as it was. On the other hand, when the cluster state changes to `ACTIVE`, re-partitioning starts and unassigned partitions are assigned to the active members.
	- All other operations in the cluster, except migration, continue without restrictions.
	- You cannot change the state of a cluster to `FROZEN` when migration/replication tasks are being performed.
<br></br>
- **`PASSIVE`**:
	- In this state, the partition table is frozen and partition assignments are not performed. 
	- Your cluster does not accept new members.
	- If a member leaves while the cluster is in this state, the member will be removed from the partition table if cluster state moves back to `ACTIVE`. 
	- This state rejects ALL operations immediately EXCEPT the read-only operations like `map.get()` and `cache.get()`, replication and cluster heartbeat tasks. 
	- You cannot change the state of a cluster to `PASSIVE` when migration/replication tasks are being performed.
<br></br>
- **`IN_TRANSITION`**: 
	- This state shows that the state of the cluster is in transition. 
	- You cannot set your cluster's state as `IN_TRANSITION` explicitly. 
	- It is a temporary and intermediate state. 
	- During this state, your cluster does not accept new members and migration/replication tasks are paused.


![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *All in-cluster methods are fail-fast, i.e. when a method fails in the cluster, it throws an exception immediately (it will not be retried).*


The following snippet is from the `Cluster` interface showing the new methods used to manage your cluster's states.


```java
public interface Cluster {
...
...
    ClusterState getClusterState();
    void changeClusterState(ClusterState newState);
    void changeClusterState(ClusterState newState, TransactionOptions transactionOptions);
    void shutdown();
    void shutdown(TransactionOptions transactionOptions);
```

Please refer to the <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/Cluster.java" target="_blank">Cluster interface</a> for information on these methods.

#### Cluster Member States

Hazelcast cluster members have the following states:

- **`ACTIVE`**: This is the initial member state. The member can execute and process all operations. When the state of the cluster is `ACTIVE` or `FROZEN`, the members are in the `ACTIVE` state. 
<br></br>
- **`PASSIVE`**: In this state, member rejects all operations EXCEPT the read-only ones, replication and migration operations, heartbeat operations, and the join operations as explained in the [Cluster States section](#cluster-states) above. A member can go into this state when either of the following happens:
	1. Until the member's shutdown process is completed after the method `Node.shutdown(boolean)` is called. Note that, when the shutdown process is completed, member's state changes to `SHUT_DOWN`. 
	2. Cluster's state is changed to `PASSIVE` using the method `changeClusterState()`. 
<br></br>
- **`SHUT_DOWN`**: A member goes into this state when the member's shutdown process is completed. The member in this state rejects all operations and invocations. A member in this state cannot be restarted.
<br></br>

Commit message:

Add info about NO_MIGRATION cluster state

src/ManagingClusterState.md, after:




### Managing Cluster and Member States

Starting with the release of 3.6, Hazelcast introduces cluster and member states in addition to the default `ACTIVE` state. This section explains these states of Hazelcast clusters and members which you can use to allow or restrict the designated cluster/member operations.

#### Cluster States

By changing the state of your cluster, you can allow/restrict several cluster operations or change the behavior of those operations. You can use the methods `changeClusterState()` and `shutdown()` which are in the <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/Cluster.java" target="_blank">Cluster interface</a> to change your cluster's state.

 Hazelcast clusters have the following states:

- **`ACTIVE`**: This is the default cluster state. Cluster continues to operate without restrictions.
<br></br>
- **`NO_MIGRATION`**:
    - In this state, migrations (partition rebalancing) and backup replications are not allowed.
    - Cluster accepts new members.
    - All other operations are allowed.
    - You cannot change the state of a cluster to `NO_MIGRATION` when migration/replication tasks are being performed.
<br></br>
- **`FROZEN`**:
	- In this state, the partition table is frozen and partition assignments are not performed.
	- Your cluster does not accept new members.
	- If a member leaves, it can join back. Its partition assignments (both primary and replica) remain the same until either it joins back or the cluster state is changed to `ACTIVE`. When it joins back to the cluster, it will own all previous partition assignments as it was. On the other hand, when the cluster state changes to `ACTIVE`, re-partitioning starts and unassigned partitions are assigned to the active members.
	- All other operations in the cluster, except migration, continue without restrictions.
	- You cannot change the state of a cluster to `FROZEN` when migration/replication tasks are being performed.
<br></br>
- **`PASSIVE`**:
	- In this state, the partition table is frozen and partition assignments are not performed. 
	- Your cluster does not accept new members.
	- If a member leaves while the cluster is in this state, the member will be removed from the partition table if cluster state moves back to `ACTIVE`. 
	- This state rejects ALL operations immediately EXCEPT the read-only operations like `map.get()` and `cache.get()`, replication and cluster heartbeat tasks. 
	- You cannot change the state of a cluster to `PASSIVE` when migration/replication tasks are being performed.
<br></br>
- **`IN_TRANSITION`**: 
	- This state shows that the state of the cluster is in transition. 
	- You cannot set your cluster's state as `IN_TRANSITION` explicitly. 
	- It is a temporary and intermediate state. 
	- During this state, your cluster does not accept new members and migration/replication tasks are paused.


![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *All in-cluster methods are fail-fast, i.e. when a method fails in the cluster, it throws an exception immediately (it will not be retried).*


The following snippet is from the `Cluster` interface showing the new methods used to manage your cluster's states.


```java
public interface Cluster {
...
...
    ClusterState getClusterState();
    void changeClusterState(ClusterState newState);
    void changeClusterState(ClusterState newState, TransactionOptions transactionOptions);
    void shutdown();
    void shutdown(TransactionOptions transactionOptions);
```

Please refer to the <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/master/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/core/Cluster.java" target="_blank">Cluster interface</a> for information on these methods.

#### Cluster Member States

Hazelcast cluster members have the following states:

- **`ACTIVE`**: This is the initial member state. The member can execute and process all operations. When the state of the cluster is `ACTIVE` or `FROZEN`, the members are in the `ACTIVE` state. 
<br></br>
- **`PASSIVE`**: In this state, member rejects all operations EXCEPT the read-only ones, replication and migration operations, heartbeat operations, and the join operations as explained in the [Cluster States section](#cluster-states) above. A member can go into this state when either of the following happens:
	1. Until the member's shutdown process is completed after the method `Node.shutdown(boolean)` is called. Note that, when the shutdown process is completed, member's state changes to `SHUT_DOWN`. 
	2. Cluster's state is changed to `PASSIVE` using the method `changeClusterState()`. 
<br></br>
- **`SHUT_DOWN`**: A member goes into this state when the member's shutdown process is completed. The member in this state rejects all operations and invocations. A member in this state cannot be restarted.
<br></br>
