src/Map-Backups.md, before:




### Backing Up Maps


Hazelcast distributes map entries onto multiple cluster members (JVMs). Each member holds some portion of the data.
 
Distributed maps have one backup by default. If a member goes down, you do not lose data. Backup operations are synchronous, so when a `map.put(key, value)` returns, it is guaranteed that the map entry is replicated to one other member. For the reads, it is also guaranteed that `map.get(key)` returns the latest value of the entry. Consistency is strictly enforced.


#### Creating Sync Backups

To provide data safety, Hazelcast allows you to specify the number of backup copies you want to have. That way, data on a cluster member will be copied onto other member(s). 

To create synchronous backups, select the number of backup copies using the `backup-count` property.

```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>1</backup-count>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

When this count is 1, a map entry will have its backup on one other member in the cluster. If you set it to 2, then a map entry will have its backup on two other members. You can set it to 0 if you do not want your entries to be backed up, e.g., if performance is more important than backing up. The maximum value for the backup count is 6.

Hazelcast supports both synchronous and asynchronous backups. By default, backup operations are synchronous and configured with `backup-count`. In this case, backup operations block operations until backups are successfully copied to backup members (or deleted from backup members in case of remove) and acknowledgements are received. Therefore, backups are updated before a `put` operation is completed, provided that the cluster is stable. Sync backup operations have a blocking cost which may lead to latency issues.

#### Creating Async Backups

Asynchronous backups, on the other hand, do not block operations. They are fire & forget and do not require acknowledgements; the backup operations are performed at some point in time.

To create asynchronous backups, select the number of async backups with the `async-backup-count` property. An example is shown below.
 

```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>0</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>1</async-backup-count>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

<br></br>
![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *Backups increase memory usage since they are also kept in memory.*

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *A map can have both sync and aysnc backups at the same time.*



#### Enabling Backup Reads

By default, Hazelcast has one sync backup copy. If `backup-count` is set to more than 1, then each member will carry both owned entries and backup copies of other members. So for the `map.get(key)` call, it is possible that the calling member has a backup copy of that key. By default, `map.get(key)` will always read the value from the actual owner of the key for consistency.

To enable backup reads (read local backup entries), set the value of the `read-backup-data` property to **true**. Its default value is **false** for strong consistency. Enabling backup reads can improve performance. 

```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>0</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>1</async-backup-count>
    <read-backup-data>true</read-backup-data>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

This feature is available when there is at least one sync or async backup.

Please note that if you are performing a read from a backup, you should take into account that your hits to the keys in the backups are not reflected as hits to the original keys on the primary members. This has an impact on IMap's maximum idle seconds or time-to-live seconds expiration. Therefore, even though there is a hit on a key in backups, your original key on the primary member may expire.

Commit message:

Add consistency and replication model section

src/Map-Backups.md, after:




### Backing Up Maps


Hazelcast distributes map entries onto multiple cluster members (JVMs). Each member holds some portion of the data.

Distributed maps have one backup by default. If a member goes down, your data is recovered using the backups in the cluster. There are two types of backups as described below: _sync_ and _async_.


#### Creating Sync Backups

To provide data safety, Hazelcast allows you to specify the number of backup copies you want to have. That way, data on a cluster member will be copied onto other member(s).

To create synchronous backups, select the number of backup copies using the `backup-count` property.

```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>1</backup-count>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

When this count is 1, a map entry will have its backup on one other member in the cluster. If you set it to 2, then a map entry will have its backup on two other members. You can set it to 0 if you do not want your entries to be backed up, e.g., if performance is more important than backing up. The maximum value for the backup count is 6.

Hazelcast supports both synchronous and asynchronous backups. By default, backup operations are synchronous and configured with `backup-count`. In this case, backup operations block operations until backups are successfully copied to backup members (or deleted from backup members in case of remove) and acknowledgements are received. Therefore, backups are updated before a `put` operation is completed, provided that the cluster is stable. Sync backup operations have a blocking cost which may lead to latency issues.

#### Creating Async Backups

Asynchronous backups, on the other hand, do not block operations. They are fire & forget and do not require acknowledgements; the backup operations are performed at some point in time.

To create asynchronous backups, select the number of async backups with the `async-backup-count` property. An example is shown below.


```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>0</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>1</async-backup-count>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

See [Consistency and Replication Model](#consistency-and-replication-model) for more detail.

<br></br>
![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *Backups increase memory usage since they are also kept in memory.*

![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *A map can have both sync and aysnc backups at the same time.*



#### Enabling Backup Reads

By default, Hazelcast has one sync backup copy. If `backup-count` is set to more than 1, then each member will carry both owned entries and backup copies of other members. So for the `map.get(key)` call, it is possible that the calling member has a backup copy of that key. By default, `map.get(key)` will always read the value from the actual owner of the key for consistency.

To enable backup reads (read local backup entries), set the value of the `read-backup-data` property to **true**. Its default value is **false** for consistency. Enabling backup reads can improve performance but on the other hand it can cause stale reads while still preserving monotonic-reads property.

```xml
<hazelcast>
  <map name="default">
    <backup-count>0</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>1</async-backup-count>
    <read-backup-data>true</read-backup-data>
  </map>
</hazelcast>
```

This feature is available when there is at least one sync or async backup.

Please note that if you are performing a read from a backup, you should take into account that your hits to the keys in the backups are not reflected as hits to the original keys on the primary members. This has an impact on IMap's maximum idle seconds or time-to-live seconds expiration. Therefore, even though there is a hit on a key in backups, your original key on the primary member may expire.
