src/OtherClients.md, before:


## Other Client and Language Implementations



Please refer to <a href="https://hazelcast.org/clients-languages/" target="_blank">Feature Comparison Matrix</a> to see the features implemented across the clients and language APIs.


### Python Client


Python Client implementation for Hazelcast. It is implemented using the Hazelcast Open Binary Client Protocol. 

Please refer to <a href="http://hazelcast.github.io/hazelcast-python-client/" target="_blank">Hazelcast Python Client</a> for its documentation. 

### Node.js Client

Node.js Client implementation for Hazelcast. It is implemented using the Hazelcast Open Binary Client Protocol. 

Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-nodejs-client" target="_blank">Hazelcast Node.js Client</a> for its documentation. 

### Scala 

The API for Hazelcast Scala is based on Scala 2.11 and Hazelcast 3.6/3.7/3.8 releases. However, these are not hard dependencies provided that you include the relevant Hazelcast dependencies.

Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-scala" target="_blank">Hazelcast Scala</a> for its documentation.

Commit message:

Added Go client to listings.

src/OtherClients.md, after:


## Other Client and Language Implementations



Please refer to <a href="https://hazelcast.org/clients-languages/" target="_blank">Feature Comparison Matrix</a> to see the features implemented across the clients and language APIs.


### Python Client


Python Client implementation for Hazelcast. It is implemented using the Hazelcast Open Binary Client Protocol. 

Please refer to <a href="http://hazelcast.github.io/hazelcast-python-client/" target="_blank">Hazelcast Python Client</a> for its documentation. 

### Node.js Client

Node.js Client implementation for Hazelcast. It is implemented using the Hazelcast Open Binary Client Protocol. 

Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-nodejs-client" target="_blank">Hazelcast Node.js Client</a> for its documentation. 

### Go Client

Go Client implementation for Hazelcast. It is implemented using the Hazelcast Open Binary Client Protocol. 

Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-go-client" target="_blank">Go Client</a> for its documentation. 


### Scala 

The API for Hazelcast Scala is based on Scala 2.11 and Hazelcast 3.6/3.7/3.8 releases. However, these are not hard dependencies provided that you include the relevant Hazelcast dependencies.

Please refer to <a href="https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-scala" target="_blank">Hazelcast Scala</a> for its documentation.
