src/Query.md, before:




### Criteria API

Criteria API is a programming interface offered by Hazelcast similar to Java Persistence Query Language (JPQL). Below is the code
for the above sample query.

```java
import com.hazelcast.core.IMap;
import com.hazelcast.query.Predicate;
import com.hazelcast.query.PredicateBuilder;
import com.hazelcast.query.EntryObject;
import com.hazelcast.config.Config;

IMap<String, Employee> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employee" );

EntryObject e = new PredicateBuilder().getEntryObject();
Predicate predicate = e.is( "active" ).and( e.get( "age" ).lessThan( 30 ) );

Set<Employee> employees = map.values( predicate );
```

In the above sample, `predicate` verifies whether the entry is active and its `age` value is less than 30. This `predicate` is
applied to the `employee` map using the `map.values(predicate)` method. This method sends the predicate to all cluster members
and merges the results coming from them. As you can guess, since the predicate is communicated between the members, it needs to
be serializable.

***NOTE:*** *Predicates can also be applied to `keySet`, `entrySet` and `localKeySet` of Hazelcast distributed map.*

#### Predicates Class

`Predicates` class offered by Hazelcast includes a lot of operators that will meet your query requirements. Some of them are
explained below.

- *equal*: checks if the result of an expression is equal to a given value.
- *notEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is not equal to a given value.
- *instanceOf*: checks if the result of an expression has a certain type
- *like*: checks if the result of an expression matches some string pattern. % (percentage sign) is placeholder for many
characters,  (underscore) is placeholder for only one character.
- *greaterThan*: checks if the result of an expression is greater than a certain value.
- *greaterEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is greater or equal than a certain value.
- *lessThan*: checks if the result of an expression is less than a certain value
- *lessEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is than than or equal to a certain value.
- *between*: checks if the result of an expression is between 2 values (this is inclusive).
- *in*: checks if the result of an expression is an element of a certain collection.
- *isNot*: checks if the result of an expression is false.
- *regex*: checks if the result of an expression matches some regular expression.
<br></br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please see
[Predicates](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/2709bc81cd499a3160827de24422cdb6cf98fe36/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/query/Predicates.java)
class for all predicates provided.*


#### Joining Predicates with AND, OR, NOT

Predicates can be joined using the `and`, `or` and `not` operators, as shown in the below examples.

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameAndAge( String name, int age ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate agePredicate = Predicates.equal( "age", age );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.and( namePredicate, agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameOrAge( String name, int age ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate agePredicate = Predicates.equal( "age", age );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.or( namePredicate, agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```

```java
public Set<Person> getNotWithName( String name ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.not( namePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```


#### PredicateBuilder

Predicate usage can be simplified using the `PredicateBuilder` class. It offers a more simpler predicate building. Please see the
below sample code which which selects all people with a certain name and age.

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameAndAgeSimplified( String name, int age ) {
  EntryObject e = new PredicateBuilder().getEntryObject();
  Predicate agePredicate = e.get( "age" ).equal( age );
  Predicate predicate = e.get( "name" ).equal( name ).and( agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```


### Distributed SQL Query

`com.hazelcast.query.SqlPredicate` takes regular SQL `where` clause. Here is an example:

```java
IMap<Employee> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employee" );
Set<Employee> employees = map.values( new SqlPredicate( "active AND age < 30" ) );
```

#### Supported SQL syntax:

**AND/OR:** `<expression> AND <expression> AND <expression>... `

- `active AND age>30`
- `active=false OR age = 45 OR name = 'Joe' `
- `active AND ( age > 20 OR salary < 60000 ) `

**Equality:** `=, !=, <, <=, >, >=`

- `<expression> = value`
- `age <= 30`
- `name = "Joe"`
- `salary != 50000`

**BETWEEN: ** `<attribute> [NOT] BETWEEN <value1> AND <value2>`

- `age BETWEEN 20 AND 33 ( same as age >= 20  AND age <= 33 )`
- `age NOT BETWEEN 30 AND 40 ( same as age < 30 OR age > 40 )`

**LIKE:** `<attribute> [NOT] LIKE 'expression'`

The `%` (percentage sign) is placeholder for multiple characters, an `_` (underscore) is placeholder for only one character.

- `name LIKE 'Jo%'` (true for 'Joe', 'Josh', 'Joseph' etc.)
- `name LIKE 'Jo_'` (true for 'Joe'; false for 'Josh')
- `name NOT LIKE 'Jo_'` (true for 'Josh'; false for 'Joe')
- `name LIKE 'J_s%'` (true for 'Josh', 'Joseph'; false 'John', 'Joe')

**IN:** `<attribute> [NOT] IN (val1, val2,...)`

- `age IN ( 20, 30, 40 )`
- `age NOT IN ( 60, 70 )`
- `active AND ( salary >= 50000 OR ( age NOT BETWEEN 20 AND 30 ) )`
- `age IN ( 20, 30, 40 ) AND salary BETWEEN ( 50000, 80000 )`


### Paging Predicate (Order & Limit)

Hazelcast provides paging for defined predicates. For this purpose, `PagingPredicate` class has been developed. You may want to
get collection of keys, values or entries page by page, by filtering them with predicates and giving the size of pages. Also, you
can sort the entries by specifying comparators.

Below is a sample code where the `greaterEqual` predicate is used to get values from "students" map. This predicate puts a filter
such that the objects with value of "age" is greater than or equal to 18 will be retrieved. Then, a `PagingPredicate` is
constructed in which the page size is 5. So, there will be 5 objects in each page.

The first time the values are called will constitute the first page. You can get the subsequent pages by using the `nextPage()`
method of `PagingPredicate` and querying the map again with updated `PagingPredicate`.


```java
IMap<Integer, Student> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "students" );
Predicate greaterEqual = Predicates.greaterEqual( "age", 18 );
PagingPredicate pagingPredicate = new PagingPredicate( greaterEqual, 5 );
// Retrieve the first page
Collection<Student> values = map.values( pagingPredicate );
...
// Set up next page
pagingPredicate.nextPage();
// Retrieve next page
values = map.values( pagingPredicate );
...
```

Paging Predicate is not supported in Transactional Context.
<br></br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to the [Javadoc](http://hazelcast.org/docs/latest/javadoc/com/hazelcast/query/Predicates.html) for all
predicates.*



### Indexing

Hazelcast distributed queries will run on each member in parallel and only results will return the conn. When a query runs on a
member, Hazelcast will iterate through the entire owned entries and find the matching ones. This can be made faster by indexing
the mostly queried fields. Just like you would do for your database. Of course, indexing will add overhead for each `write`
operation but queries will be a lot faster. If you are querying your map a lot, make sure to add indexes for most frequently
queried fields. So, if your `active and age < 30` query, for example, is used a lot, make sure you add index for `active` and
`age` fields. Here is how:

```java
IMap map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employees" );
// ordered, since we have ranged queries for this field
map.addIndex( "age", true );
// not ordered, because boolean field cannot have range
map.addIndex( "active", false );
```

`IMap.addIndex(fieldName, ordered)` is used for adding index. For each indexed field, if you have ranged queries such as `age>30`,
`age BETWEEN 40 AND 60`, then `ordered` parameter should be `true`. Otherwise, set it to `false`.

Also, you can define `IMap` indexes in configuration, a sample of which is shown below.

```xml
<map name="default">
  ...
  <indexes>
    <index ordered="false">name</index>
    <index ordered="true">age</index>
  </indexes>
</map>
```

This sample in programmatic configuration looks like below.

```java
mapConfig.addMapIndexConfig( new MapIndexConfig( "name", false ) );
mapConfig.addMapIndexConfig( new MapIndexConfig( "age", true ) );
```

And, the following is the Spring declarative configuration for the same sample.

```xml
<hz:map name="default">
  <hz:indexes>
    <hz:index attribute="name"/>
    <hz:index attribute="age" ordered="true"/>
  </hz:indexes>
</hz:map>
```
<br></br>
***ATTENTION:*** *Non-primitive types to be indexed should implement *`Comparable`*.*

### Query Thread Configuration

Size of the thread pool dedicated to query operations can be changed using the `pool-size` property. Below is a sample declarative configuration.

```xml
<executor-service name="hz:query">
  <pool-size>100</pool-size>
</executor-service>
```

And, below is the programmatic configuration equivalent to the sample above.

```java
Config cfg = new Config();
cfg.getExecutorConfig("hz:query").setPoolSize(100);
```

Commit message:

documentation update for issue #3428 (throws exception in case of non-comparable)

src/Query.md, after:




### Criteria API

Criteria API is a programming interface offered by Hazelcast similar to Java Persistence Query Language (JPQL). Below is the code
for the above sample query.

```java
import com.hazelcast.core.IMap;
import com.hazelcast.query.Predicate;
import com.hazelcast.query.PredicateBuilder;
import com.hazelcast.query.EntryObject;
import com.hazelcast.config.Config;

IMap<String, Employee> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employee" );

EntryObject e = new PredicateBuilder().getEntryObject();
Predicate predicate = e.is( "active" ).and( e.get( "age" ).lessThan( 30 ) );

Set<Employee> employees = map.values( predicate );
```

In the above sample, `predicate` verifies whether the entry is active and its `age` value is less than 30. This `predicate` is
applied to the `employee` map using the `map.values(predicate)` method. This method sends the predicate to all cluster members
and merges the results coming from them. As you can guess, since the predicate is communicated between the members, it needs to
be serializable.

***NOTE:*** *Predicates can also be applied to `keySet`, `entrySet` and `localKeySet` of Hazelcast distributed map.*

#### Predicates Class

`Predicates` class offered by Hazelcast includes a lot of operators that will meet your query requirements. Some of them are
explained below.

- *equal*: checks if the result of an expression is equal to a given value.
- *notEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is not equal to a given value.
- *instanceOf*: checks if the result of an expression has a certain type
- *like*: checks if the result of an expression matches some string pattern. % (percentage sign) is placeholder for many
characters,  (underscore) is placeholder for only one character.
- *greaterThan*: checks if the result of an expression is greater than a certain value.
- *greaterEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is greater or equal than a certain value.
- *lessThan*: checks if the result of an expression is less than a certain value
- *lessEqual*: checks if the result of an expression is than than or equal to a certain value.
- *between*: checks if the result of an expression is between 2 values (this is inclusive).
- *in*: checks if the result of an expression is an element of a certain collection.
- *isNot*: checks if the result of an expression is false.
- *regex*: checks if the result of an expression matches some regular expression.
<br></br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please see
[Predicates](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast/blob/2709bc81cd499a3160827de24422cdb6cf98fe36/hazelcast/src/main/java/com/hazelcast/query/Predicates.java)
class for all predicates provided.*


#### Joining Predicates with AND, OR, NOT

Predicates can be joined using the `and`, `or` and `not` operators, as shown in the below examples.

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameAndAge( String name, int age ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate agePredicate = Predicates.equal( "age", age );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.and( namePredicate, agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameOrAge( String name, int age ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate agePredicate = Predicates.equal( "age", age );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.or( namePredicate, agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```

```java
public Set<Person> getNotWithName( String name ) {
  Predicate namePredicate = Predicates.equal( "name", name );
  Predicate predicate = Predicates.not( namePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```


#### PredicateBuilder

Predicate usage can be simplified using the `PredicateBuilder` class. It offers a more simpler predicate building. Please see the
below sample code which which selects all people with a certain name and age.

```java
public Set<Person> getWithNameAndAgeSimplified( String name, int age ) {
  EntryObject e = new PredicateBuilder().getEntryObject();
  Predicate agePredicate = e.get( "age" ).equal( age );
  Predicate predicate = e.get( "name" ).equal( name ).and( agePredicate );
  return personMap.values( predicate );
}
```


### Distributed SQL Query

`com.hazelcast.query.SqlPredicate` takes regular SQL `where` clause. Here is an example:

```java
IMap<Employee> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employee" );
Set<Employee> employees = map.values( new SqlPredicate( "active AND age < 30" ) );
```

#### Supported SQL syntax:

**AND/OR:** `<expression> AND <expression> AND <expression>... `

- `active AND age>30`
- `active=false OR age = 45 OR name = 'Joe' `
- `active AND ( age > 20 OR salary < 60000 ) `

**Equality:** `=, !=, <, <=, >, >=`

- `<expression> = value`
- `age <= 30`
- `name = "Joe"`
- `salary != 50000`

**BETWEEN: ** `<attribute> [NOT] BETWEEN <value1> AND <value2>`

- `age BETWEEN 20 AND 33 ( same as age >= 20  AND age <= 33 )`
- `age NOT BETWEEN 30 AND 40 ( same as age < 30 OR age > 40 )`

**LIKE:** `<attribute> [NOT] LIKE 'expression'`

The `%` (percentage sign) is placeholder for multiple characters, an `_` (underscore) is placeholder for only one character.

- `name LIKE 'Jo%'` (true for 'Joe', 'Josh', 'Joseph' etc.)
- `name LIKE 'Jo_'` (true for 'Joe'; false for 'Josh')
- `name NOT LIKE 'Jo_'` (true for 'Josh'; false for 'Joe')
- `name LIKE 'J_s%'` (true for 'Josh', 'Joseph'; false 'John', 'Joe')

**IN:** `<attribute> [NOT] IN (val1, val2,...)`

- `age IN ( 20, 30, 40 )`
- `age NOT IN ( 60, 70 )`
- `active AND ( salary >= 50000 OR ( age NOT BETWEEN 20 AND 30 ) )`
- `age IN ( 20, 30, 40 ) AND salary BETWEEN ( 50000, 80000 )`


### Paging Predicate (Order & Limit)

Hazelcast provides paging for defined predicates. For this purpose, `PagingPredicate` class has been developed. You may want to
get collection of keys, values or entries page by page, by filtering them with predicates and giving the size of pages. Also, you
can sort the entries by specifying comparators.

Below is a sample code where the `greaterEqual` predicate is used to get values from "students" map. This predicate puts a filter
such that the objects with value of "age" is greater than or equal to 18 will be retrieved. Then, a `PagingPredicate` is
constructed in which the page size is 5. So, there will be 5 objects in each page.

The first time the values are called will constitute the first page. You can get the subsequent pages by using the `nextPage()`
method of `PagingPredicate` and querying the map again with updated `PagingPredicate`.


```java
IMap<Integer, Student> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "students" );
Predicate greaterEqual = Predicates.greaterEqual( "age", 18 );
PagingPredicate pagingPredicate = new PagingPredicate( greaterEqual, 5 );
// Retrieve the first page
Collection<Student> values = map.values( pagingPredicate );
...
// Set up next page
pagingPredicate.nextPage();
// Retrieve next page
values = map.values( pagingPredicate );
...
```

If a comparator is not specified for `PagingPredicate` and when you want to get collection of keys or values page by page, this collection must be an instance of `Comparable` (i.e. it must implement `java.lang.Comparable`). Otherwise, `java.lang.IllegalArgument` exception is thrown.

Paging Predicate is not supported in Transactional Context.
<br></br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*Please refer to the [Javadoc](http://hazelcast.org/docs/latest/javadoc/com/hazelcast/query/Predicates.html) for all
predicates.*



### Indexing

Hazelcast distributed queries will run on each member in parallel and only results will return the conn. When a query runs on a
member, Hazelcast will iterate through the entire owned entries and find the matching ones. This can be made faster by indexing
the mostly queried fields. Just like you would do for your database. Of course, indexing will add overhead for each `write`
operation but queries will be a lot faster. If you are querying your map a lot, make sure to add indexes for most frequently
queried fields. So, if your `active and age < 30` query, for example, is used a lot, make sure you add index for `active` and
`age` fields. Here is how:

```java
IMap map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "employees" );
// ordered, since we have ranged queries for this field
map.addIndex( "age", true );
// not ordered, because boolean field cannot have range
map.addIndex( "active", false );
```

`IMap.addIndex(fieldName, ordered)` is used for adding index. For each indexed field, if you have ranged queries such as `age>30`,
`age BETWEEN 40 AND 60`, then `ordered` parameter should be `true`. Otherwise, set it to `false`.

Also, you can define `IMap` indexes in configuration, a sample of which is shown below.

```xml
<map name="default">
  ...
  <indexes>
    <index ordered="false">name</index>
    <index ordered="true">age</index>
  </indexes>
</map>
```

This sample in programmatic configuration looks like below.

```java
mapConfig.addMapIndexConfig( new MapIndexConfig( "name", false ) );
mapConfig.addMapIndexConfig( new MapIndexConfig( "age", true ) );
```

And, the following is the Spring declarative configuration for the same sample.

```xml
<hz:map name="default">
  <hz:indexes>
    <hz:index attribute="name"/>
    <hz:index attribute="age" ordered="true"/>
  </hz:indexes>
</hz:map>
```
<br></br>
***ATTENTION:*** *Non-primitive types to be indexed should implement *`Comparable`*.*

### Query Thread Configuration

Size of the thread pool dedicated to query operations can be changed using the `pool-size` property. Below is a sample declarative configuration.

```xml
<executor-service name="hz:query">
  <pool-size>100</pool-size>
</executor-service>
```

And, below is the programmatic configuration equivalent to the sample above.

```java
Config cfg = new Config();
cfg.getExecutorConfig("hz:query").setPoolSize(100);
```
