src/Queue-Configuration.md, before:

### Configuring Queue

The following are example queue configurations including the `QueueStore` configuration which is explained in the previous section.


**Declarative:**

```xml
<queue name="default">
    <max-size>0</max-size>
    <backup-count>1</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>0</async-backup-count>
    <empty-queue-ttl>-1</empty-queue-ttl>
    <item-listeners>
       <item-listener>
          com.hazelcast.examples.ItemListener
       </item-listener>
    <item-listeners>
</queue>
<queue-store>
    <class-name>com.hazelcast.QueueStoreImpl</class-name>
    <properties>
       <property name="binary">false</property>
       <property name="memory-limit">10000</property>
       <property name="bulk-load">500</property>
    </properties>
</queue-store>   
```

**Programmatic:**

```java
Config config = new Config();
QueueConfig queueConfig = config.getQueueConfig();
queueConfig.setName( "MyQueue" ).setBackupCount( "1" )
        .setMaxSize( "0" ).setStatisticsEnabled( "true" );
queueConfig.getQueueStoreConfig()
        .setEnabled ( "true" )
        .setClassName( "com.hazelcast.QueueStoreImpl" )
        .setProperty( "binary", "false" );
```


Hazelcast distributed queue has one synchronous backup by default. By having this backup, when a cluster member with a queue goes down, another member having the backup of that queue will continue. Therefore, no items are lost. You can define the number of synchronous backups for a queue using the `backup-count` element in the declarative configuration. A queue can also have asynchronous backups: you can define the number of asynchronous backups using the `async-backup-count` element.


To set the maximum size of the queue, use the `max-size` element. To purge unused or empty queues after a period of time, use the `empty-queue-ttl` element. If you define a value (time in seconds) for the `empty-queue-ttl` element, then your queue will be destroyed if it stays empty or unused for the time you give.

The following are the full list of elements with their descriptions.

- `max-size`: Maximum number of items in the Queue.
- `backup-count`: Number of synchronous backups. Queue is a non-partitioned data structure, so all entries of a Queue resides in one partition. When this parameter is '1', it means there will be 1 backup of that Queue in another node in the cluster. When it is '2', 2 nodes will have the backup.
- `async-backup-count`: Number of asynchronous backups.
- `empty-queue-ttl`: Used to purge unused or empty queues. If you define a value (time in seconds) for this element, then your queue will be destroyed if it stays empty or unused for that time.
- `item-listeners`: Lets you add listeners (listener classes) for the queue items. You can also set the attribute `include-value` to `true` if you want the item event to contain the item values, and you can set `local` to `true` if you want to listen to the items on the local node.
- `queue-store`: Includes the queue store factory class name and the properties  *binary*, *memory limit* and *bulk load*. Please refer to [Queueing with Persistent Datastore](#queueing-with-persistent-datastore).
- `statistics-enabled`: If set to `true`, you can retrieve statistics for this Queue using the method `getLocalQueueStats()`.

Commit message:

copyedit
copyedit, such as some replacement of node with member, adding a link
instead of “previous section”,

src/Queue-Configuration.md, after:

### Configuring Queue

The following are example queue configurations including the `QueueStore` configuration which is explained in the [Queueing with Persistent Datastore](#queueing-with-persistent-datastore) section.


**Declarative:**

```xml
<queue name="default">
    <max-size>0</max-size>
    <backup-count>1</backup-count>
    <async-backup-count>0</async-backup-count>
    <empty-queue-ttl>-1</empty-queue-ttl>
    <item-listeners>
       <item-listener>
          com.hazelcast.examples.ItemListener
       </item-listener>
    <item-listeners>
</queue>
<queue-store>
    <class-name>com.hazelcast.QueueStoreImpl</class-name>
    <properties>
       <property name="binary">false</property>
       <property name="memory-limit">10000</property>
       <property name="bulk-load">500</property>
    </properties>
</queue-store>   
```

**Programmatic:**

```java
Config config = new Config();
QueueConfig queueConfig = config.getQueueConfig();
queueConfig.setName( "MyQueue" ).setBackupCount( "1" )
        .setMaxSize( "0" ).setStatisticsEnabled( "true" );
queueConfig.getQueueStoreConfig()
        .setEnabled ( "true" )
        .setClassName( "com.hazelcast.QueueStoreImpl" )
        .setProperty( "binary", "false" );
```


Hazelcast distributed queue has one synchronous backup by default. By having this backup, when a cluster member with a queue goes down, another member having the backup of that queue will continue. Therefore, no items are lost. You can define the number of synchronous backups for a queue using the `backup-count` element in the declarative configuration. A queue can also have asynchronous backups: you can define the number of asynchronous backups using the `async-backup-count` element.


To set the maximum size of the queue, use the `max-size` element. To purge unused or empty queues after a period of time, use the `empty-queue-ttl` element. If you define a value (time in seconds) for the `empty-queue-ttl` element, then your queue will be destroyed if it stays empty or unused for the time you give.

The following are the full list of elements with their descriptions.

- `max-size`: Maximum number of items in the Queue.
- `backup-count`: Number of synchronous backups. Queue is a non-partitioned data structure, so all entries of a Queue resides in one partition. When this parameter is '1', it means there will be 1 backup of that Queue in another member in the cluster. When it is '2', 2 members will have the backup.
- `async-backup-count`: Number of asynchronous backups.
- `empty-queue-ttl`: Used to purge unused or empty queues. If you define a value (time in seconds) for this element, then your queue will be destroyed if it stays empty or unused for that time.
- `item-listeners`: Lets you add listeners (listener classes) for the queue items. You can also set the attribute `include-value` to `true` if you want the item event to contain the item values, and you can set `local` to `true` if you want to listen to the items on the local node (member).
- `queue-store`: Includes the queue store factory class name and the properties  *binary*, *memory limit* and *bulk load*. Please refer to [Queueing with Persistent Datastore](#queueing-with-persistent-datastore).
- `statistics-enabled`: If set to `true`, you can retrieve statistics for this Queue using the method `getLocalQueueStats()`.
