
## Solace Integration

This section explains how you can integrate Hazelcast's WAN replication with [Solace](http://www.solacesystems.com/) messaging platform. With this integration, you can publish and consume WAN replication events to/from Solace appliances. For this purpose, Hazelcast WAN replication module has the following classes:

- `SolaceWanPublisher`
- `SolaceWanConsumer`

You can register these classes using the configuration elements `<wan-publisher>` and `<wan-consumer>` while configuring your WAN replication. Please see the following sections for configuration details.

### Configuring Publisher

Following is an example declarative configuration for the publisher side:

```xml
<wan-replication name="AtoB">
    <wan-publisher group-name="clusterB">
        <class-name>com.hazelcast.enterprise.wan.solace.SolaceWanPublisher</class-name>
        <properties>
			<property name="host">192.168.2.66</property>
			<property name="vpn.name">YOUR_VPN_NAME</property>
			<property name="username">admin</property>
			<property name="password">YOUR_PASSWORD</property>
			<property name="topic.base.name">BaseTopic</property>
			<property name="queue.name">Q/hz/clusterA</property>
			<property name="initial.queue.mapping.enabled">true</property>
		</properties>
    </wan-publisher>
</wan-replication>
```

Descriptions of the properties are as follows:

- `class-name`: Full class name of Solace WAN publisher, i.e., `com.hazelcast.enterprise.wan.solace.SolaceWanPublisher`
- `host`: IP address of the Solace host machine. It can be in the format "IP address:Port number". It is a mandatory property.
- `vpn.name`: Name of the Solace VPN. It is an optional property.
- `username`: Username for the Solace host. It is a mandatory property.
- `password`: Password for the Solace host. It is an optional property.
- `topic.base.name`: Base topic name to use while publishing events to Solace appliance. If not defined, the members will publish to topics using the format "T/hz/[cluster-group-name]/partitionId". If defined, the format "[topic.base.name]/partitionId" will be used. It is an optional property.
- `queue.name`: Name of the queue to be used in topic-to-queue mapping. This property is only valid if the property `initial.queue.mapping.enabled` is set to "true". Default queue name is "Q/hz/[cluster-group-name].
- `initial.queue.mapping.enabled`: Decides if a default topic-to-queue mapping should be performed on the publisher side. When enabled, it tries to provide a queue, whose name is defined by the property `queue.name`, and all topics that are generated by this instance is mapped to this queue. When disabled, you should perform this mapping manually. It is enabled by default.



### Configuring Consumer

Following is an example declarative configuration for the consumer side:

```xml
<wan-replication name="AtoB">
    <wan-consumer>
        <class-name>com.hazelcast.enterprise.wan.solace.SolaceWanConsumer</class-name>
        <properties>
			<property name="host">192.168.2.66</property>
			<property name="vpn.name">YOUR_VPN_NAME</property>
			<property name="username">admin</property>
			<property name="password">YOUR_PASSWORD</property>
			<property name="queue.name">Q/hz/clusterA</property>
		</properties>
    </wan-consumer>
</wan-replication>
```

Descriptions of the properties are as follows:

- `class-name`: Full class name of Solace WAN consumer, i.e., `com.hazelcast.enterprise.wan.solace.SolaceWanConsumer`
- `host`: IP address of the Solace host machine. It can be in the format "IP address:Port number". It is a mandatory property.
- `vpn.name`: Name of the Solace VPN. It is an optional property.
- `username`: Username for the Solace host. It is a mandatory property.
- `password`: Password for the Solace host. It is an optional property.
- `queue.name`: Name of the queue to be polled by the consumer. It is a mandatory property.
