src/SpringIntegration.md, before:



## Spring Integration

### Supported Versions

- Spring 2.5+

### Spring Configuration

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-configuration) for Spring Configuration.*
<br></br>


#### Bean Declaration by Spring *beans* Namespace 

***Classpath Configuration*** 

This configuration requires the following jar file in the classpath:

- `hazelcast-`<*version*>`.jar`

***Bean Declaration*** 

You can declare Hazelcast Objects using the default Spring *beans* namespace. You can find an example usage of Hazelcast Instance declaration as follows:

```xml
<bean id="instance" class="com.hazelcast.core.Hazelcast" factory-method="newHazelcastInstance">
  <constructor-arg>
    <bean class="com.hazelcast.config.Config">
      <property name="groupConfig">
        <bean class="com.hazelcast.config.GroupConfig">
          <property name="name" value="dev"/>
          <property name="password" value="pwd"/>
        </bean>
      </property>
      <!-- and so on ... -->
    </bean>
  </constructor-arg>
</bean>

<bean id="map" factory-bean="instance" factory-method="getMap">
  <constructor-arg value="map"/>
</bean>
```

#### Bean Declaration by *hazelcast* Namespace 

***Classpath Configuration*** 

Hazelcast-Spring integration requires the following JAR files in the classpath:

- `hazelcast-spring-`<*version*>`.jar`
- `hazelcast-`<*version*>`.jar`

or

- `hazelcast-all-`<*version*>`.jar`

***Bean Declaration*** 

Hazelcast has its own namespace **hazelcast** for bean definitions. You can easily add the namespace declaration *xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"* to the `beans` element in the context file so that *hz* namespace shortcut can be used as a bean declaration.

Here is an example schema definition for Hazelcast 3.3.x:

```xml
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring/hazelcast-spring.xsd">
```

#### Supported Configurations with *hazelcast* Namespace

- **Hazelcast Instance Configuration**

```xml
<hz:hazelcast id="instance">
  <hz:config>
    <hz:group name="dev" password="password"/>
    <hz:network port="5701" port-auto-increment="false">
      <hz:join>
        <hz:multicast enabled="false"
                      multicast-group="224.2.2.3"
                      multicast-port="54327"/>
        <hz:tcp-ip enabled="true">
          <hz:members>10.10.1.2, 10.10.1.3</hz:members>
        </hz:tcp-ip>
      </hz:join>
    </hz:network>
    <hz:map name="map"
            backup-count="2"
            max-size="0"
            eviction-percentage="30"
            read-backup-data="true"
            eviction-policy="NONE"
            merge-policy="com.hazelcast.map.merge.PassThroughMergePolicy"/>
  </hz:config>
</hz:hazelcast>
```

-   **Hazelcast Client Configuration**

```xml
<hz:client id="client">
  <hz:group name="${cluster.group.name}" password="${cluster.group.password}" />
  <hz:network connection-attempt-limit="3"
              connection-attempt-period="3000"
              connection-timeout="1000"
              redo-operation="true"
              smart-routing="true">
    <hz:member>10.10.1.2:5701</hz:member>
    <hz:member>10.10.1.3:5701</hz:member>
  </hz:network>
</hz:client>
```

-   **Hazelcast Supported Type Configurations and Examples**

	- `map`
	- `multiMap`
	- `replicatedmap`
	- `queue`
	- `topic`
	- `set`
	- `list`
	- `executorService`
	- `idGenerator`
	- `atomicLong`
	- `atomicReference`
	- `semaphore`
	- `countDownLatch`
	- `lock`


```xml
<hz:map id="map" instance-ref="client" name="map" lazy-init="true" />
<hz:multiMap id="multiMap" instance-ref="instance" name="multiMap"
    lazy-init="false" />
<hz:replicatedmap id="replicatedmap" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="replicatedmap" lazy-init="false" />
<hz:queue id="queue" instance-ref="client" name="queue" 
    lazy-init="true" depends-on="instance"/>
<hz:topic id="topic" instance-ref="instance" name="topic" 
    depends-on="instance, client"/>
<hz:set id="set" instance-ref="instance" name="set" />
<hz:list id="list" instance-ref="instance" name="list"/>
<hz:executorService id="executorService" instance-ref="client" 
    name="executorService"/>
<hz:idGenerator id="idGenerator" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="idGenerator"/>
<hz:atomicLong id="atomicLong" instance-ref="instance" name="atomicLong"/>
<hz:atomicReference id="atomicReference" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="atomicReference"/>
<hz:semaphore id="semaphore" instance-ref="instance" name="semaphore"/>
<hz:countDownLatch id="countDownLatch" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="countDownLatch"/>
<hz:lock id="lock" instance-ref="instance" name="lock"/>
```

-   **Supported Spring Bean Attributes**

Hazelcast also supports `lazy-init`, `scope` and `depends-on` bean attributes.

```xml
<hz:hazelcast id="instance" lazy-init="true" scope="singleton">
  ...
</hz:hazelcast>
<hz:client id="client" scope="prototype" depends-on="instance">
  ...
</hz:client>
```

-   **MapStore and NearCache Configuration**

For map-store, you should set either the *class-name* or the *implementation* attribute.

```xml
<hz:config>
  <hz:map name="map1">
    <hz:near-cache time-to-live-seconds="0" max-idle-seconds="60"
        eviction-policy="LRU" max-size="5000"  invalidate-on-change="true"/>

    <hz:map-store enabled="true" class-name="com.foo.DummyStore"
        write-delay-seconds="0"/>
  </hz:map>

  <hz:map name="map2">
    <hz:map-store enabled="true" implementation="dummyMapStore"
        write-delay-seconds="0"/>
  </hz:map>

  <bean id="dummyMapStore" class="com.foo.DummyStore" />
</hz:config>
```

### Spring Managed Context with @SpringAware

Hazelcast Distributed Objects could be marked with @SpringAware if the object wants:

- to apply bean properties,
- to apply factory callbacks such as `ApplicationContextAware`, `BeanNameAware`,
- to apply bean post-processing annotations such as `InitializingBean`, `@PostConstruct`.

Hazelcast Distributed `ExecutorService`, or more generally any Hazelcast managed object, can benefit from these features. To enable SpringAware objects, you must first configure `HazelcastInstance` using *hazelcast* namespace as explained in the [Spring Configuration section](#spring-configuration) and add `<hz:spring-aware />` tag.

#### SpringAware Examples

- Configure a Hazelcast Instance (3.3.x) via Spring Configuration and define *someBean* as Spring Bean.
- Add `<hz:spring-aware />` to Hazelcast configuration to enable @SpringAware.

```xml
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context"
       xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/context
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.0.xsd
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring/hazelcast-spring.xsd">

  <context:annotation-config />

  <hz:hazelcast id="instance">
    <hz:config>
      <hz:spring-aware />
      <hz:group name="dev" password="password"/>
      <hz:network port="5701" port-auto-increment="false">
        <hz:join>
          <hz:multicast enabled="false" />
          <hz:tcp-ip enabled="true">
            <hz:members>10.10.1.2, 10.10.1.3</hz:members>
          </hz:tcp-ip>
        </hz:join>
      </hz:network>
      ...
    </hz:config>
  </hz:hazelcast>

  <bean id="someBean" class="com.hazelcast.examples.spring.SomeBean"
      scope="singleton" />
  ...
</beans>
```
**Distributed Map Example:**

- Create a class called `SomeValue` which contains Spring Bean definitions like `ApplicationContext` and `SomeBean`.

```java
@SpringAware
@Component("someValue")
@Scope("prototype")
public class SomeValue implements Serializable, ApplicationContextAware {

  private transient ApplicationContext context;

  private transient SomeBean someBean;

  private transient boolean init = false;

  public void setApplicationContext( ApplicationContext applicationContext )
    throws BeansException {
    context = applicationContext;
  }

  @Autowired
  public void setSomeBean( SomeBean someBean)  {
    this.someBean = someBean;
  }

  @PostConstruct
  public void init() {
    someBean.doSomethingUseful();
    init = true;
  }
  ...
}
```

- Get `SomeValue` Object from Context and put it into Hazelcast Distributed Map on Node-1.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = 
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
SomeValue value = (SomeValue) context.getBean( "someValue" )
IMap<String, SomeValue> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "values" );
map.put( "key", value );
```

- Read `SomeValue` Object from Hazelcast Distributed Map and assert that `init` method is called since it is annotated with `@PostConstruct`.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = 
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
IMap<String, SomeValue> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "values" );
SomeValue value = map.get( "key" );
Assert.assertTrue( value.init );
```

**ExecutorService Example:**

- Create a Callable Class called SomeTask which contains Spring Bean definitions like `ApplicationContext`, `SomeBean`.


```java
@SpringAware
public class SomeTask
    implements Callable<Long>, ApplicationContextAware, Serializable {

  private transient ApplicationContext context;

  private transient SomeBean someBean;

  public Long call() throws Exception {
    return someBean.value;
  }

  public void setApplicationContext( ApplicationContext applicationContext )
      throws BeansException {
    context = applicationContext;
  }

  @Autowired
  public void setSomeBean( SomeBean someBean ) {
    this.someBean = someBean;
  }
}
```

- Submit `SomeTask` to two Hazelcast Members and assert that `someBean` is autowired.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance =
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
SomeBean bean = (SomeBean) context.getBean( "someBean" );

Future<Long> f = hazelcastInstance.getExecutorService().submit(new SomeTask());
Assert.assertEquals(bean.value, f.get().longValue());

// choose a member
Member member = hazelcastInstance.getCluster().getMembers().iterator().next();

Future<Long> f2 = (Future<Long>) hazelcast.getExecutorService()
    .submitToMember(new SomeTask(), member);
Assert.assertEquals(bean.value, f2.get().longValue());
```


![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *Spring managed properties/fields are marked as `transient`.*



### Spring Cache


***Sample Code***: *Please see our sample application for [Spring Cache](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-cache-manager).*
<br></br>

As of version 3.1, Spring Framework provides support for adding caching into an existing Spring application. 

#### Declarative Spring Cache Configuration

```xml
<cache:annotation-driven cache-manager="cacheManager" />

<hz:hazelcast id="hazelcast">
  ...
</hz:hazelcast>

<bean id="cacheManager" class="com.hazelcast.spring.cache.HazelcastCacheManager">
  <constructor-arg ref="instance"/>
</bean>
```

#### Annotation Based Spring Cache Configuration

Annotation Based Configuration does not require any XML definition.

- Implement a `CachingConfiguration` class with related Annotations.

```java
@Configuration
@EnableCaching
public class CachingConfiguration implements CachingConfigurer{
    @Bean
    public CacheManager cacheManager() {
        ClientConfig config = new ClientConfig();
        HazelcastInstance client = HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient(config);
        return new HazelcastCacheManager(client);
    }
    @Bean
    public KeyGenerator keyGenerator() {
        return null;
    }
```

- Launch Application Context and register `CachingConfiguration`.

```java
AnnotationConfigApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext();
context.register(CachingConfiguration.class);
context.refresh();
```

For more information about Spring Cache, please see [Spring Cache Abstraction](http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.1.x/spring-framework-reference/html/cache.html).



### Hibernate 2nd Level Cache Config

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-hibernate-2ndlevel-cache) for Hibernate 2nd Level Cache Config.*
<br></br>

If you are using Hibernate with Hazelcast as 2nd level cache provider, you can easily create `RegionFactory` instances within Spring configuration (by Spring version 3.1). That way, you can use the same `HazelcastInstance` as Hibernate L2 cache instance.

```xml
<hz:hibernate-region-factory id="regionFactory" instance-ref="instance"
    mode="LOCAL" />
...
<bean id="sessionFactory" 
      class="org.springframework.orm.hibernate3.LocalSessionFactoryBean" 
	  scope="singleton">
  <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>
  <property name="cacheRegionFactory" ref="regionFactory" />
  ...
</bean>
```

**Hibernate RegionFactory Modes**

- LOCAL
- DISTRIBUTED 

Please refer to the Hibernate [RegionFactory Options section](#regionfactory-options) for more information.

### Best Practices

#### Avoid Out of Memory Error with Large Distributed Data Structures

Spring tries to create a new `Map`/`Collection` instance and fill the new instance by iterating and converting values of the original `Map`/`Collection` (`IMap`, `IQueue`, etc.) to required types when generic type parameters of the original `Map`/`Collection` and the target property/attribute do not match.

Since Hazelcast `Map`s/`Collection`s are designed to hold very large data which a single machine cannot carry, iterating through whole values can cause out of memory errors.

To avoid this issue, the target property/attribute can be declared as un-typed `Map`/`Collection` as shown below.

```java
public class SomeBean {
  @Autowired
  IMap map; // instead of IMap<K, V> map

  @Autowired
  IQueue queue; // instead of IQueue<E> queue

  ...
}
```

Or, parameters of injection methods (constructor, setter) can be un-typed as shown below.

```java
public class SomeBean {

  IMap<K, V> map;

  IQueue<E> queue;

  // Instead of IMap<K, V> map
  public SomeBean(IMap map) {
    this.map = map;
  }

  ...

  // Instead of IQueue<E> queue
  public void setQueue(IQueue queue) {
    this.queue = queue;
  }
  ...
}
```
<br> </br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*For more information please see [Spring issue-3407](https://jira.springsource.org/browse/SPR-3407).*

Commit message:

Intro for Spring chapter authored to comply with the style guide.

src/SpringIntegration.md, after:



## Spring Integration

You can integrate Hazelcast with Spring and this chapter explains the configuration of Hazelcast within Spring context. 

### Supported Versions

- Spring 2.5+

### Spring Configuration

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-configuration) for Spring Configuration.*
<br></br>


#### Bean Declaration by Spring *beans* Namespace 

***Classpath Configuration*** 

This configuration requires the following jar file in the classpath:

- `hazelcast-`<*version*>`.jar`

***Bean Declaration*** 

You can declare Hazelcast Objects using the default Spring *beans* namespace. You can find an example usage of Hazelcast Instance declaration as follows:

```xml
<bean id="instance" class="com.hazelcast.core.Hazelcast" factory-method="newHazelcastInstance">
  <constructor-arg>
    <bean class="com.hazelcast.config.Config">
      <property name="groupConfig">
        <bean class="com.hazelcast.config.GroupConfig">
          <property name="name" value="dev"/>
          <property name="password" value="pwd"/>
        </bean>
      </property>
      <!-- and so on ... -->
    </bean>
  </constructor-arg>
</bean>

<bean id="map" factory-bean="instance" factory-method="getMap">
  <constructor-arg value="map"/>
</bean>
```

#### Bean Declaration by *hazelcast* Namespace 

***Classpath Configuration*** 

Hazelcast-Spring integration requires the following JAR files in the classpath:

- `hazelcast-spring-`<*version*>`.jar`
- `hazelcast-`<*version*>`.jar`

or

- `hazelcast-all-`<*version*>`.jar`

***Bean Declaration*** 

Hazelcast has its own namespace **hazelcast** for bean definitions. You can easily add the namespace declaration *xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"* to the `beans` element in the context file so that *hz* namespace shortcut can be used as a bean declaration.

Here is an example schema definition for Hazelcast 3.3.x:

```xml
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring/hazelcast-spring.xsd">
```

#### Supported Configurations with *hazelcast* Namespace

- **Hazelcast Instance Configuration**

```xml
<hz:hazelcast id="instance">
  <hz:config>
    <hz:group name="dev" password="password"/>
    <hz:network port="5701" port-auto-increment="false">
      <hz:join>
        <hz:multicast enabled="false"
                      multicast-group="224.2.2.3"
                      multicast-port="54327"/>
        <hz:tcp-ip enabled="true">
          <hz:members>10.10.1.2, 10.10.1.3</hz:members>
        </hz:tcp-ip>
      </hz:join>
    </hz:network>
    <hz:map name="map"
            backup-count="2"
            max-size="0"
            eviction-percentage="30"
            read-backup-data="true"
            eviction-policy="NONE"
            merge-policy="com.hazelcast.map.merge.PassThroughMergePolicy"/>
  </hz:config>
</hz:hazelcast>
```

-   **Hazelcast Client Configuration**

```xml
<hz:client id="client">
  <hz:group name="${cluster.group.name}" password="${cluster.group.password}" />
  <hz:network connection-attempt-limit="3"
              connection-attempt-period="3000"
              connection-timeout="1000"
              redo-operation="true"
              smart-routing="true">
    <hz:member>10.10.1.2:5701</hz:member>
    <hz:member>10.10.1.3:5701</hz:member>
  </hz:network>
</hz:client>
```

-   **Hazelcast Supported Type Configurations and Examples**

	- `map`
	- `multiMap`
	- `replicatedmap`
	- `queue`
	- `topic`
	- `set`
	- `list`
	- `executorService`
	- `idGenerator`
	- `atomicLong`
	- `atomicReference`
	- `semaphore`
	- `countDownLatch`
	- `lock`


```xml
<hz:map id="map" instance-ref="client" name="map" lazy-init="true" />
<hz:multiMap id="multiMap" instance-ref="instance" name="multiMap"
    lazy-init="false" />
<hz:replicatedmap id="replicatedmap" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="replicatedmap" lazy-init="false" />
<hz:queue id="queue" instance-ref="client" name="queue" 
    lazy-init="true" depends-on="instance"/>
<hz:topic id="topic" instance-ref="instance" name="topic" 
    depends-on="instance, client"/>
<hz:set id="set" instance-ref="instance" name="set" />
<hz:list id="list" instance-ref="instance" name="list"/>
<hz:executorService id="executorService" instance-ref="client" 
    name="executorService"/>
<hz:idGenerator id="idGenerator" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="idGenerator"/>
<hz:atomicLong id="atomicLong" instance-ref="instance" name="atomicLong"/>
<hz:atomicReference id="atomicReference" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="atomicReference"/>
<hz:semaphore id="semaphore" instance-ref="instance" name="semaphore"/>
<hz:countDownLatch id="countDownLatch" instance-ref="instance" 
    name="countDownLatch"/>
<hz:lock id="lock" instance-ref="instance" name="lock"/>
```

-   **Supported Spring Bean Attributes**

Hazelcast also supports `lazy-init`, `scope` and `depends-on` bean attributes.

```xml
<hz:hazelcast id="instance" lazy-init="true" scope="singleton">
  ...
</hz:hazelcast>
<hz:client id="client" scope="prototype" depends-on="instance">
  ...
</hz:client>
```

-   **MapStore and NearCache Configuration**

For map-store, you should set either the *class-name* or the *implementation* attribute.

```xml
<hz:config>
  <hz:map name="map1">
    <hz:near-cache time-to-live-seconds="0" max-idle-seconds="60"
        eviction-policy="LRU" max-size="5000"  invalidate-on-change="true"/>

    <hz:map-store enabled="true" class-name="com.foo.DummyStore"
        write-delay-seconds="0"/>
  </hz:map>

  <hz:map name="map2">
    <hz:map-store enabled="true" implementation="dummyMapStore"
        write-delay-seconds="0"/>
  </hz:map>

  <bean id="dummyMapStore" class="com.foo.DummyStore" />
</hz:config>
```

### Spring Managed Context with @SpringAware

Hazelcast Distributed Objects could be marked with @SpringAware if the object wants:

- to apply bean properties,
- to apply factory callbacks such as `ApplicationContextAware`, `BeanNameAware`,
- to apply bean post-processing annotations such as `InitializingBean`, `@PostConstruct`.

Hazelcast Distributed `ExecutorService`, or more generally any Hazelcast managed object, can benefit from these features. To enable SpringAware objects, you must first configure `HazelcastInstance` using *hazelcast* namespace as explained in the [Spring Configuration section](#spring-configuration) and add `<hz:spring-aware />` tag.

#### SpringAware Examples

- Configure a Hazelcast Instance (3.3.x) via Spring Configuration and define *someBean* as Spring Bean.
- Add `<hz:spring-aware />` to Hazelcast configuration to enable @SpringAware.

```xml
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xmlns:context="http://www.springframework.org/schema/context"
       xmlns:hz="http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/context
                http://www.springframework.org/schema/context/spring-context-3.0.xsd
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring
                http://www.hazelcast.com/schema/spring/hazelcast-spring.xsd">

  <context:annotation-config />

  <hz:hazelcast id="instance">
    <hz:config>
      <hz:spring-aware />
      <hz:group name="dev" password="password"/>
      <hz:network port="5701" port-auto-increment="false">
        <hz:join>
          <hz:multicast enabled="false" />
          <hz:tcp-ip enabled="true">
            <hz:members>10.10.1.2, 10.10.1.3</hz:members>
          </hz:tcp-ip>
        </hz:join>
      </hz:network>
      ...
    </hz:config>
  </hz:hazelcast>

  <bean id="someBean" class="com.hazelcast.examples.spring.SomeBean"
      scope="singleton" />
  ...
</beans>
```
**Distributed Map Example:**

- Create a class called `SomeValue` which contains Spring Bean definitions like `ApplicationContext` and `SomeBean`.

```java
@SpringAware
@Component("someValue")
@Scope("prototype")
public class SomeValue implements Serializable, ApplicationContextAware {

  private transient ApplicationContext context;

  private transient SomeBean someBean;

  private transient boolean init = false;

  public void setApplicationContext( ApplicationContext applicationContext )
    throws BeansException {
    context = applicationContext;
  }

  @Autowired
  public void setSomeBean( SomeBean someBean)  {
    this.someBean = someBean;
  }

  @PostConstruct
  public void init() {
    someBean.doSomethingUseful();
    init = true;
  }
  ...
}
```

- Get `SomeValue` Object from Context and put it into Hazelcast Distributed Map on Node-1.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = 
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
SomeValue value = (SomeValue) context.getBean( "someValue" )
IMap<String, SomeValue> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "values" );
map.put( "key", value );
```

- Read `SomeValue` Object from Hazelcast Distributed Map and assert that `init` method is called since it is annotated with `@PostConstruct`.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance = 
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
IMap<String, SomeValue> map = hazelcastInstance.getMap( "values" );
SomeValue value = map.get( "key" );
Assert.assertTrue( value.init );
```

**ExecutorService Example:**

- Create a Callable Class called SomeTask which contains Spring Bean definitions like `ApplicationContext`, `SomeBean`.


```java
@SpringAware
public class SomeTask
    implements Callable<Long>, ApplicationContextAware, Serializable {

  private transient ApplicationContext context;

  private transient SomeBean someBean;

  public Long call() throws Exception {
    return someBean.value;
  }

  public void setApplicationContext( ApplicationContext applicationContext )
      throws BeansException {
    context = applicationContext;
  }

  @Autowired
  public void setSomeBean( SomeBean someBean ) {
    this.someBean = someBean;
  }
}
```

- Submit `SomeTask` to two Hazelcast Members and assert that `someBean` is autowired.

```java
HazelcastInstance hazelcastInstance =
    (HazelcastInstance) context.getBean( "hazelcast" );
SomeBean bean = (SomeBean) context.getBean( "someBean" );

Future<Long> f = hazelcastInstance.getExecutorService().submit(new SomeTask());
Assert.assertEquals(bean.value, f.get().longValue());

// choose a member
Member member = hazelcastInstance.getCluster().getMembers().iterator().next();

Future<Long> f2 = (Future<Long>) hazelcast.getExecutorService()
    .submitToMember(new SomeTask(), member);
Assert.assertEquals(bean.value, f2.get().longValue());
```


![image](images/NoteSmall.jpg) ***NOTE:*** *Spring managed properties/fields are marked as `transient`.*



### Spring Cache


***Sample Code***: *Please see our sample application for [Spring Cache](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-cache-manager).*
<br></br>

As of version 3.1, Spring Framework provides support for adding caching into an existing Spring application. 

#### Declarative Spring Cache Configuration

```xml
<cache:annotation-driven cache-manager="cacheManager" />

<hz:hazelcast id="hazelcast">
  ...
</hz:hazelcast>

<bean id="cacheManager" class="com.hazelcast.spring.cache.HazelcastCacheManager">
  <constructor-arg ref="instance"/>
</bean>
```

#### Annotation Based Spring Cache Configuration

Annotation Based Configuration does not require any XML definition.

- Implement a `CachingConfiguration` class with related Annotations.

```java
@Configuration
@EnableCaching
public class CachingConfiguration implements CachingConfigurer{
    @Bean
    public CacheManager cacheManager() {
        ClientConfig config = new ClientConfig();
        HazelcastInstance client = HazelcastClient.newHazelcastClient(config);
        return new HazelcastCacheManager(client);
    }
    @Bean
    public KeyGenerator keyGenerator() {
        return null;
    }
```

- Launch Application Context and register `CachingConfiguration`.

```java
AnnotationConfigApplicationContext context = new AnnotationConfigApplicationContext();
context.register(CachingConfiguration.class);
context.refresh();
```

For more information about Spring Cache, please see [Spring Cache Abstraction](http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.1.x/spring-framework-reference/html/cache.html).



### Hibernate 2nd Level Cache Config

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-hibernate-2ndlevel-cache) for Hibernate 2nd Level Cache Config.*
<br></br>

If you are using Hibernate with Hazelcast as 2nd level cache provider, you can easily create `RegionFactory` instances within Spring configuration (by Spring version 3.1). That way, you can use the same `HazelcastInstance` as Hibernate L2 cache instance.

```xml
<hz:hibernate-region-factory id="regionFactory" instance-ref="instance"
    mode="LOCAL" />
...
<bean id="sessionFactory" 
      class="org.springframework.orm.hibernate3.LocalSessionFactoryBean" 
	  scope="singleton">
  <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>
  <property name="cacheRegionFactory" ref="regionFactory" />
  ...
</bean>
```

**Hibernate RegionFactory Modes**

- LOCAL
- DISTRIBUTED 

Please refer to the Hibernate [RegionFactory Options section](#regionfactory-options) for more information.

### Best Practices

#### Avoid Out of Memory Error with Large Distributed Data Structures

Spring tries to create a new `Map`/`Collection` instance and fill the new instance by iterating and converting values of the original `Map`/`Collection` (`IMap`, `IQueue`, etc.) to required types when generic type parameters of the original `Map`/`Collection` and the target property/attribute do not match.

Since Hazelcast `Map`s/`Collection`s are designed to hold very large data which a single machine cannot carry, iterating through whole values can cause out of memory errors.

To avoid this issue, the target property/attribute can be declared as un-typed `Map`/`Collection` as shown below.

```java
public class SomeBean {
  @Autowired
  IMap map; // instead of IMap<K, V> map

  @Autowired
  IQueue queue; // instead of IQueue<E> queue

  ...
}
```

Or, parameters of injection methods (constructor, setter) can be un-typed as shown below.

```java
public class SomeBean {

  IMap<K, V> map;

  IQueue<E> queue;

  // Instead of IMap<K, V> map
  public SomeBean(IMap map) {
    this.map = map;
  }

  ...

  // Instead of IQueue<E> queue
  public void setQueue(IQueue queue) {
    this.queue = queue;
  }
  ...
}
```
<br> </br>

***RELATED INFORMATION***

*For more information please see [Spring issue-3407](https://jira.springsource.org/browse/SPR-3407).*
