src/WebSessionReplication.md, before:


## Web Session Replication

If you are using Tomcat as your web container, please see the [Tomcat based Web Session Replication section](#tomcat-based-web-session-replication).


### Filter Based Web Session Replication

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/filter-based-session-replication) for Filter Based Web Session Replication.*
<br></br>

Assume that you have more than one web server (A, B, C) with a load balancer in front of it. If server A goes down, your users on that server will be directed to one of the live servers (B or C), but their sessions will be lost.

We need to have all these sessions backed up somewhere if we do not want to lose the sessions upon server crashes. Hazelcast Web Manager (WM) allows you to cluster user HTTP sessions automatically. The following are required before enabling Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-   Target application or web server should support Java 1.6 or higher.

-   Target application or web server should support Servlet 3.0 or higher spec.

-   Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable.

-   In the client/server architecture, session classes does not have to be present in the server classpath.

Here are the steps to setup Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-	Put the `hazelcast` and `hazelcast-wm` jars in your `WEB-INF/lib` directory. Optionally, if you wish to connect to a cluster as a client, add `hazelcast-client` as well.

-	Put the following XML into `web.xml` file. Make sure Hazelcast filter is placed before all the other filters if any; for example, you can put it at the top.

```xml             
<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter</filter-class>
  <!--
    Name of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>map-name</param-name>
    <param-value>my-sessions</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    TTL value of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects.
    Any integer between 0 and Integer.MAX_VALUE.
    Default is 1800 which is 30 minutes.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>session-ttl-seconds</param-name>
    <param-value>10</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    How is your load-balancer configured?
    sticky-session means all requests of a session
    is routed to the node where the session is first created.
    This is excellent for performance.
    If sticky-session is set to false, when a session is updated
    on a node, entry for this session on all other nodes is invalidated.
    You have to know how your load-balancer is configured before
    setting this parameter. Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>sticky-session</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Name of session id cookie
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-name</param-name>
    <param-value>hazelcast.sessionId</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Domain of session id cookie. Default is based on incoming request.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-domain</param-name>
    <param-value>.mywebsite.com</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should cookie only be sent using a secure protocol? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-secure</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should HttpOnly attribute be set on cookie ? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-http-only</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Are you debugging? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>debug</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Configuration xml location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is one of hazelcast-default.xml
    or hazelcast.xml in classpath.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast.xml</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to use an existing HazelcastInstance?
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>instance-name</param-name>
    <param-value>default</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to connect as a client to an existing cluster?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>use-client</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Client configuration location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>client-config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast-client.properties</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to shutdown HazelcastInstance during
    web application undeploy process?
    Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>shutdown-on-destroy</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to cache sessions locally in each instance?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>deferred-write</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  <dispatcher>FORWARD</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>INCLUDE</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>REQUEST</dispatcher>
</filter-mapping>

<listener>
  <listener-class>com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener</listener-class>
</listener>
```

- Package and deploy your `war` file as you would normally do.

It is that easy. All HTTP requests will go through Hazelcast `WebFilter` and it will put the session objects into Hazelcast distributed map if needed.

### Spring Security Support

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-security) for Spring Security Support.*
<br><br/>

If Spring based security is used for your application, you should use `com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter` instead of `com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter` in your filter definition.

```xml
...

<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter</filter-class>
    ...
</filter> 

...
```

`SpringAwareWebFilter` notifies Spring by publishing events to Spring context. These events are used by the `org.springframework.security.core.session.SessionRegistry` instance. 

As before, you must also define `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` in your `web.xml`. However, you do not need to define `org.springframework.security.web.session.HttpSessionEventPublisher` in your `web.xml` as before, since `SpringAwareWebFilter` already informs Spring about session based events like `create` or `destroy`. 




#### Client Mode vs. P2P Mode

Hazelcast Session Replication works as P2P by default. To switch to Client/Server architecture, you need to set the `use-client` parameter to **true**. P2P mode is more flexible and requires no configuration in advance; in Client/Server architecture, clients need to connect to an existing Hazelcast Cluster. In case of connection problems, clients will try to reconnect to the cluster. The default retry count is 3.
In the client/server architecture, if servers goes down, Hazelcast web manager will keep the updates in the local and after servers come back, the clients will update the distributed map.

#### Caching Locally with `deferred-write`

If the value for `deferred-write` is set as **true**, Hazelcast will cache the session locally and will update the local session when an attribute is set or deleted. At the end of the request, it will update the distributed map with all the updates. It will not update the distributed map upon each attribute update, but will only call it once at the end of the request. It will also cache it, i.e. whenever there is a read for the attribute, it will read it from the cache. 

**Important note about `deferred-write=false` setting**:

If `deferred-write` is **false**, any update (i.e. `setAttribute`) on the session will directly be available in the cluster. One exception to this behavior is the changes to the session attribute objects. To update an attribute cluster-wide, `setAttribute` must be called after changes are made to the attribute object.

The following example explains how to update an attribute in the case of `deferred-write=false` setting: 

```
session.setAttribute("myKey", new ArrayList());
List list1 = session.getAttribute("myKey");
list1.add("myValue"); 
session.setAttribute("myKey", list1); // changes updated in the cluster
```

#### SessionId Generation

SessionId generation is done by the Hazelcast Web Session Module if session replication is configured in the web application. The default cookie name for the sessionId is `hazelcast.sessionId`. This name is configurable with a `cookie-name` parameter in the `web.xml` file of the application.
`hazelcast.sessionId` is just a UUID prefixed with “HZ” character and without “-“ character, e.g. `HZ6F2D036789E4404893E99C05D8CA70C7`.

When called by the target application, the value of `HttpSession.getId()` is the same as the value of `hazelcast.sessionId`.

#### Session Expiry

Hazelcast automatically removes sessions from the cluster if the sessions are expired on the Web Container. This removal is done by `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener`, which is an implementation of `javax.servlet.http.HttpSessionListener`. 

Default session expiration configuration depends on the Servlet Container that is being used. You can also define it in your web.xml.

```xml
    <session-config>
        <session-timeout>60</session-timeout>
    </session-config>
```

#### sticky-session

Hazelcast holds whole session attributes in a distributed map and in a local HTTP session. Local session is required for fast access to data and distributed map is needed for fail-safety.

- If `sticky-session` is not used, whenever a session attribute is updated in a node (in both node local session and clustered cache), that attribute should be invalidated in all other nodes' local sessions, because now they have dirty values. Therefore, when a request arrives at one of those other nodes, that attribute value is fetched from clustered cache.

- To overcome the performance penalty of sending invalidation messages during updates, you can use sticky sessions. If Hazelcast knows sessions are sticky, invalidation will not be sent because Hazelcast assumes there is no other local session at the moment. When a server is down, requests belonging to a session hold in that server will routed to other server, and that server will fetch session data from clustered cache. That means, using sticky sessions, one will not suffer the  performance penalty of accessing clustered data and can benefit recover from a server failure.

#### transient-attributes

If you have some attributes that you do not want them to be distributed, you can mark those attributes as transient.
Transient attributes are kept in and when the server is shutdown, you lost the attribute values.
You can set the transient attributes in your `web.xml` file.
Here is an example:

```
...
   <init-param>
            <param-name>transient-attributes</param-name>
            <param-value>key1,key2,key3</param-value>
   </init-param>
...
```
<br></br>

#### Client/Server Configuration

In client/server mode of session replication `session-ttl-seconds` config does not have any effect, because filter based session replication uses IMap and hazelcast client cannot change configuration of a distributed map.
You should configure `max-idle-seconds` parameter in your hazelcast.xml on the server side.

 ```
 ...
   <map name="my-sessions">
         <!--
            How much seconds you want your session attributes to stored on server?
            Default is 0.
          -->
        <max-idle-seconds>20</max-idle-seconds>
   </map>
 ...
 ```
 <br></br>

 Also make sure that name of the distributed map is same as the `map-name` parameter defined in your `web.xml` config file.

Commit message:

Added session-ttl-seconds related content to client/server section.

src/WebSessionReplication.md, after:


## Web Session Replication

If you are using Tomcat as your web container, please see the [Tomcat based Web Session Replication section](#tomcat-based-web-session-replication).


### Filter Based Web Session Replication

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/filter-based-session-replication) for Filter Based Web Session Replication.*
<br></br>

Assume that you have more than one web server (A, B, C) with a load balancer in front of it. If server A goes down, your users on that server will be directed to one of the live servers (B or C), but their sessions will be lost.

We need to have all these sessions backed up somewhere if we do not want to lose the sessions upon server crashes. Hazelcast Web Manager (WM) allows you to cluster user HTTP sessions automatically. The following are required before enabling Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-   Target application or web server should support Java 1.6 or higher.

-   Target application or web server should support Servlet 3.0 or higher spec.

-   Session objects that need to be clustered have to be Serializable.

-   In the client/server architecture, session classes does not have to be present in the server classpath.

Here are the steps to setup Hazelcast Session Clustering:

-	Put the `hazelcast` and `hazelcast-wm` jars in your `WEB-INF/lib` directory. Optionally, if you wish to connect to a cluster as a client, add `hazelcast-client` as well.

-	Put the following XML into `web.xml` file. Make sure Hazelcast filter is placed before all the other filters if any; for example, you can put it at the top.

```xml             
<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter</filter-class>
  <!--
    Name of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>map-name</param-name>
    <param-value>my-sessions</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    TTL value of the distributed map storing
    your web session objects.
    Any integer between 0 and Integer.MAX_VALUE.
    Default is 1800 which is 30 minutes.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>session-ttl-seconds</param-name>
    <param-value>10</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    How is your load-balancer configured?
    sticky-session means all requests of a session
    is routed to the node where the session is first created.
    This is excellent for performance.
    If sticky-session is set to false, when a session is updated
    on a node, entry for this session on all other nodes is invalidated.
    You have to know how your load-balancer is configured before
    setting this parameter. Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>sticky-session</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Name of session id cookie
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-name</param-name>
    <param-value>hazelcast.sessionId</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Domain of session id cookie. Default is based on incoming request.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-domain</param-name>
    <param-value>.mywebsite.com</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should cookie only be sent using a secure protocol? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-secure</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Should HttpOnly attribute be set on cookie ? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>cookie-http-only</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Are you debugging? Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>debug</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Configuration xml location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is one of hazelcast-default.xml
    or hazelcast.xml in classpath.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast.xml</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to use an existing HazelcastInstance?
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>instance-name</param-name>
    <param-value>default</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to connect as a client to an existing cluster?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>use-client</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Client configuration location;
      * as servlet resource OR
      * as classpath resource OR
      * as URL
    Default is null.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>client-config-location</param-name>
    <param-value>/WEB-INF/hazelcast-client.properties</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to shutdown HazelcastInstance during
    web application undeploy process?
    Default is true.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>shutdown-on-destroy</param-name>
    <param-value>true</param-value>
  </init-param>
  <!--
    Do you want to cache sessions locally in each instance?
    Default is false.
  -->
  <init-param>
    <param-name>deferred-write</param-name>
    <param-value>false</param-value>
  </init-param>
</filter>
<filter-mapping>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <url-pattern>/*</url-pattern>
  <dispatcher>FORWARD</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>INCLUDE</dispatcher>
  <dispatcher>REQUEST</dispatcher>
</filter-mapping>

<listener>
  <listener-class>com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener</listener-class>
</listener>
```

- Package and deploy your `war` file as you would normally do.

It is that easy. All HTTP requests will go through Hazelcast `WebFilter` and it will put the session objects into Hazelcast distributed map if needed.

### Spring Security Support

***Sample Code***: *Please see our [sample application](https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-code-samples/tree/master/hazelcast-integration/spring-security) for Spring Security Support.*
<br><br/>

If Spring based security is used for your application, you should use `com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter` instead of `com.hazelcast.web.WebFilter` in your filter definition.

```xml
...

<filter>
  <filter-name>hazelcast-filter</filter-name>
  <filter-class>com.hazelcast.web.spring.SpringAwareWebFilter</filter-class>
    ...
</filter> 

...
```

`SpringAwareWebFilter` notifies Spring by publishing events to Spring context. These events are used by the `org.springframework.security.core.session.SessionRegistry` instance. 

As before, you must also define `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener` in your `web.xml`. However, you do not need to define `org.springframework.security.web.session.HttpSessionEventPublisher` in your `web.xml` as before, since `SpringAwareWebFilter` already informs Spring about session based events like `create` or `destroy`. 




#### Client Mode vs. P2P Mode

Hazelcast Session Replication works as P2P by default. To switch to Client/Server architecture, you need to set the `use-client` parameter to **true**. P2P mode is more flexible and requires no configuration in advance; in Client/Server architecture, clients need to connect to an existing Hazelcast Cluster. In case of connection problems, clients will try to reconnect to the cluster. The default retry count is 3.
In the client/server architecture, if servers goes down, Hazelcast web manager will keep the updates in the local and after servers come back, the clients will update the distributed map.

Note that, in the client/server mode of session replication, `session-ttl-seconds` configuration does not have any effect. The reason is that the filter based session replication uses IMap and a Hazelcast client cannot change the configuration of a distributed map.
Instead, you should configure the `max-idle-seconds` element in your `hazelcast.xml` on the server side. 

 ```
 ...
   <map name="my-sessions">
         <!--
            How much seconds do you want your session attributes to be stored on server?
            Default is 0.
          -->
        <max-idle-seconds>20</max-idle-seconds>
   </map>
 ...
 ```
 <br></br>
 
Also make sure that name of the distributed map is same as the `map-name` parameter defined in your `web.xml` configuration file.


#### Caching Locally with `deferred-write`

If the value for `deferred-write` is set as **true**, Hazelcast will cache the session locally and will update the local session when an attribute is set or deleted. At the end of the request, it will update the distributed map with all the updates. It will not update the distributed map upon each attribute update, but will only call it once at the end of the request. It will also cache it, i.e. whenever there is a read for the attribute, it will read it from the cache. 

**Important note about `deferred-write=false` setting**:

If `deferred-write` is **false**, any update (i.e. `setAttribute`) on the session will directly be available in the cluster. One exception to this behavior is the changes to the session attribute objects. To update an attribute cluster-wide, `setAttribute` must be called after changes are made to the attribute object.

The following example explains how to update an attribute in the case of `deferred-write=false` setting: 

```
session.setAttribute("myKey", new ArrayList());
List list1 = session.getAttribute("myKey");
list1.add("myValue"); 
session.setAttribute("myKey", list1); // changes updated in the cluster
```

#### SessionId Generation

SessionId generation is done by the Hazelcast Web Session Module if session replication is configured in the web application. The default cookie name for the sessionId is `hazelcast.sessionId`. This name is configurable with a `cookie-name` parameter in the `web.xml` file of the application.
`hazelcast.sessionId` is just a UUID prefixed with “HZ” character and without “-“ character, e.g. `HZ6F2D036789E4404893E99C05D8CA70C7`.

When called by the target application, the value of `HttpSession.getId()` is the same as the value of `hazelcast.sessionId`.

#### Session Expiry

Hazelcast automatically removes sessions from the cluster if the sessions are expired on the Web Container. This removal is done by `com.hazelcast.web.SessionListener`, which is an implementation of `javax.servlet.http.HttpSessionListener`. 

Default session expiration configuration depends on the Servlet Container that is being used. You can also define it in your web.xml.

```xml
    <session-config>
        <session-timeout>60</session-timeout>
    </session-config>
```

#### sticky-session

Hazelcast holds whole session attributes in a distributed map and in a local HTTP session. Local session is required for fast access to data and distributed map is needed for fail-safety.

- If `sticky-session` is not used, whenever a session attribute is updated in a node (in both node local session and clustered cache), that attribute should be invalidated in all other nodes' local sessions, because now they have dirty values. Therefore, when a request arrives at one of those other nodes, that attribute value is fetched from clustered cache.

- To overcome the performance penalty of sending invalidation messages during updates, you can use sticky sessions. If Hazelcast knows sessions are sticky, invalidation will not be sent because Hazelcast assumes there is no other local session at the moment. When a server is down, requests belonging to a session hold in that server will routed to other server, and that server will fetch session data from clustered cache. That means, using sticky sessions, one will not suffer the  performance penalty of accessing clustered data and can benefit recover from a server failure.

#### transient-attributes

If you have some attributes that you do not want them to be distributed, you can mark those attributes as transient.
Transient attributes are kept in and when the server is shutdown, you lost the attribute values.
You can set the transient attributes in your `web.xml` file.
Here is an example:

```
...
   <init-param>
            <param-name>transient-attributes</param-name>
            <param-value>key1,key2,key3</param-value>
   </init-param>
...
```
<br></br>

#### Client/Server Configuration

In client/server mode of session replication `session-ttl-seconds` config does not have any effect, because filter based session replication uses IMap and hazelcast client cannot change configuration of a distributed map.
You should configure `max-idle-seconds` parameter in your hazelcast.xml on the server side.

 ```
 ...
   <map name="my-sessions">
         <!--
            How much seconds you want your session attributes to stored on server?
            Default is 0.
          -->
        <max-idle-seconds>20</max-idle-seconds>
   </map>
 ...
 ```
 <br></br>

 Also make sure that name of the distributed map is same as the `map-name` parameter defined in your `web.xml` config file.
