src/HazelcastConfiguration/JobTrackerConfiguration.md, before:


## MapReduce Jobtracker Configuration



**Declarative:**

```xml
<job-tracker name="default">
   <max-thread-size>0</max-thread-size>
   <queue-size>0</queue-size>
   <retry-count>0</retry-count>
   <chunk-size>1000</chunk-size>
   <communicate-stats>true</communicate-stats>
   <topology-changed-strategy>CANCEL_RUNNING_OPERATION</topology-changed-strategy>
</job-tracker>
```

**Programmatic:**

```java
Config config = new Config();
JobTrackerConfig JTcfg = config.getJobTrackerConfig()
JTcfg.setName( "default" ).setQueueSize( "0" )
         .setChunkSize( "1000" );
```
   

It has below parameters.


- `max-thread-size`: Configures the maximum thread pool size of the JobTracker.
- `queue-size`: Defines the maximum number of tasks that are able to wait to be processed. A value of 0 means unbounded queue. Very low numbers can prevent successful execution since job might not be correctly scheduled or intermediate chunks are lost.
- `retry-count`: Currently not used but reserved for later use where the framework will automatically try to restart / retry operations from an available save point.
- `chunk-size`: Defines the number of emitted values before a chunk is sent to the reducers. If your emitted values are big or you want to better balance your work, you might want to change this to a lower or higher value. A value of 0 means immediate transmission but remember that low values mean higher traffic costs. A very high value might cause an OutOfMemoryError to occur if emitted values not fit into heap memory before
being sent to reducers. To prevent this, you might want to use a combiner to pre-reduce values on mapping nodes.
- `communicate-stats`: Defines if statistics (for example about processed entries) are transmitted to the job emitter. This might be used to show any kind of progress to a user inside of an UI system but produces additional traffic. If not needed, you might want to deactivate this.
- `topology-changed-strategy`: Defines how the MapReduce framework will react on topology changes while executing a job. Currently, only CANCEL_RUNNING_OPERATION is fully supported which throws an exception to the job emitter (will throw a `com.hazelcast.mapreduce.TopologyChangedException`). DISCARD_AND_RESTART ???

Commit message:

Authored JobTracker Conf section for the new...
Hazelcast Configuration chapter.

src/HazelcastConfiguration/JobTrackerConfiguration.md, after:


## MapReduce Jobtracker Configuration

The MapReduce JobTracker configuration is used to setup behavior of the Hazelcast MapReduce framework. Every JobTracker is capable of running multiple MapReduce jobs at once. Therefore, one configuration is a shared resource for all jobs created by the same JobTracker. The configuration gives full control over the expected load behavior and thread counts to be used.


**Declarative:**

```xml
<job-tracker name="default">
   <max-thread-size>0</max-thread-size>
   <queue-size>0</queue-size>
   <retry-count>0</retry-count>
   <chunk-size>1000</chunk-size>
   <communicate-stats>true</communicate-stats>
   <topology-changed-strategy>CANCEL_RUNNING_OPERATION</topology-changed-strategy>
</job-tracker>
```

**Programmatic:**

```java
Config config = new Config();
JobTrackerConfig JTcfg = config.getJobTrackerConfig()
JTcfg.setName( "default" ).setQueueSize( "0" )
         .setChunkSize( "1000" );
```
   

It has below parameters.


- `max-thread-size`: Configures the maximum thread pool size of the JobTracker.
- `queue-size`: Defines the maximum number of tasks that are able to wait to be processed. A value of 0 means unbounded queue. Very low numbers can prevent successful execution since job might not be correctly scheduled or intermediate chunks are lost.
- `retry-count`: Currently not used but reserved for later use where the framework will automatically try to restart / retry operations from an available save point.
- `chunk-size`: Defines the number of emitted values before a chunk is sent to the reducers. If your emitted values are big or you want to better balance your work, you might want to change this to a lower or higher value. A value of 0 means immediate transmission but remember that low values mean higher traffic costs. A very high value might cause an OutOfMemoryError to occur if emitted values not fit into heap memory before
being sent to reducers. To prevent this, you might want to use a combiner to pre-reduce values on mapping nodes.
- `communicate-stats`: Defines if statistics (for example about processed entries) are transmitted to the job emitter. This might be used to show any kind of progress to a user inside of an UI system but produces additional traffic. If not needed, you might want to deactivate this.
- `topology-changed-strategy`: Defines how the MapReduce framework will react on topology changes while executing a job. Currently, only CANCEL_RUNNING_OPERATION is fully supported which throws an exception to the job emitter (will throw a `com.hazelcast.mapreduce.TopologyChangedException`).
